URL: https://britannica.com/biography/Herbert-Hall-Turner
Title: Herbert Hall Turner | Astronomer, Astrophysicist, Cambridge | Britannica
H1: Herbert Hall Turner
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Herbert Hall Turner
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Herbert Hall Turner Table of Contents Introduction References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Quizzes Astronomy and Space Quiz Faces of Science All About Astronomy Read Next How Fast Is the Universe Expanding? How Do We Know How Far Away the Stars Are? What's the Difference Between a Solstice and an Equinox? Where Did the Moon Come From? Art Abuse: 11 Vandalized Works of Art Discover Timeline of the American Civil Rights Movement The Death of Shakespeare America’s 5 Most Notorious Cold Cases (Including One You May Have Thought Was Already Solved) Nostradamus and His Prophecies All 81 References in Fall Out Boy’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms Vietnam War Timeline Contents Visual Arts Photography Herbert Hall Turner British astronomer Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/biography/Herbert-Hall-Turner Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites The Bruce Medalists - Biography of Herbert Hall Turner Ask the Chatbot a Question Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Quick Facts Born: Aug. 13, 1861, Leeds, Yorkshire, Eng. (Show more) Died: Aug. 20, 1930, Stockholm, Sweden (aged 69) (Show more) See all related content Herbert Hall Turner (born Aug. 13, 1861, Leeds, Yorkshire, Eng.—died Aug. 20, 1930, Stockholm, Sweden) was an English astronomer who pioneered many of the procedures now universally employed in determining stellar positions from astronomical photographs. In 1884 Turner was appointed chief assistant at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, and in 1893 he became Savilian professor of astronomy and director of the University Observatory at Oxford. A plan for international cooperation in compiling an astrographic chart and catalog had been formulated in 1887 at Paris. Turner worked unceasingly on Oxford’s share of the project and made innovations in astronomical photography that contributed to the success of the project. Through his efforts, Oxford was the second observatory to finish its share of the catalog, and he then turned to helping others finish their zones. After the formation of the International Astronomical Union in 1919, he was appointed president of the committee in charge of the project. He also contributed much to worldwide seismological studies and established Oxford as an international centre of seismological research. A prolific writer as well as an exceptional speaker, Turner produced four popular expositions of astronomy: Modern Astronomy (1901); Astronomical Discovery (1904); The Great Star Map (1912); and A Voyage in Space (1915). At his suggestion the distant solar system object discovered by the American astronomer Clyde W. Tombaugh in 1930 was named Pluto. Britannica Quiz Astronomy and Space Quiz This article was most recently revised and updated by Encyclopaedia Britannica.
