URL: https://britannica.com/story/what-comes-after-terabyte
Title: What Comes After Terabyte? | Britannica
H1: What Comes After Terabyte?
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Therefore, after terabyte comes petabyte. Next is exabyte, then zettabyte and yottabyte.
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Discover All 81 References in Fall Out Boy’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained Where Is “Old Zealand”? Did Duchess Anastasia Survive Her Family’s Execution? Timeline of the American Civil Rights Movement Vietnam War Timeline America’s 5 Most Notorious Cold Cases (Including One You May Have Thought Was Already Solved) 5 Unbelievable Facts About Christopher Columbus Home Demystified Technology Science & Tech Actions Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/story/what-comes-after-terabyte What Comes After Terabyte? Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/story/what-comes-after-terabyte Written by Alison Eldridge Alison Eldridge was Managing Editor at Encyclopaedia Britannica. Alison Eldridge Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica (more)©ninog/Fotolia Most people don’t spend time thinking about the smallest units of data, bits and bytes. But when it comes to data transfer or storage, most of us are concerned with the megabytes, gigabytes, or even terabytes. As data capacity increases, what size hard drive should you be looking for next? Data generally uses SI (International System of Units) prefixes, basically the artist formerly known as the metric system. Following this system, tera- is the fourth power of 1000. The prefix after tera- should be 10005, or peta-. Therefore, after terabyte comes petabyte. Next is exabyte, then zettabyte and yottabyte. However, binary does not operate on the same scale as SI. It is measured as powers of two rather than powers of ten. When computer scientists first started talking in terms of large amounts of data, they just rounded to the nearest SI prefix. Sometimes, technology manufacturers still round to powers of 1000 but are actually talking about powers of 1024 (which is 210). Special binary prefixes have been made up to correspond to powers of 1024 rather than 1000, but they’re not used consistently. When a hard drive says it has a capacity of 1 terabyte (TB), 10004, it might actually be 1 tebibyte (TiB), or 10244. Binary prefixes go kibi-, mebi-, gibi-, tebi-, pebi-. So what comes after terabyte? Petabyte. But in some cases it may more accurately be called a pebibyte. Load More
