URL: https://britannica.com/topic/Bodleian-Library
Title: Bodleian Library | Library of the University of Oxford, Legal Deposit Library | Britannica
H1: Bodleian Library
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Bodleian Library
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Bodleian Library Table of Contents Introduction References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Images Read Next What’s the Difference Between Great Britain and the United Kingdom? Why Is Ireland Two Countries? 5 Fascinating British Coronation Objects 5 Historic Buildings in Liverpool British Royal Line of Succession Discover Timeline of the American Civil Rights Movement Inventors and Inventions of the Industrial Revolution Timeline of the 1990s The Death of Shakespeare How Many Countries Are There in the World? 9 Questions About the Vietnam War Answered Did Duchess Anastasia Survive Her Family’s Execution? Contents Literature Libraries & Reference Works Bodleian Library Entrance to the Bodleian Library, University of Oxford, Eng. (more) Bodleian Library library, University of Oxford, England, United Kingdom Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/topic/Bodleian-Library Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Official Site of Bodleian Libraries Ask the Chatbot a Question Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Quick Facts Date: 1602 - present (Show more) Areas Of Involvement: legal deposit (Show more) Related People: Sir Giles Gilbert Scott (Show more) See all related content Bodleian Library, library of the University of Oxford, one of the oldest and most important nonlending reference libraries in Great Britain. A legal deposit library entitled to free copies of all books printed in Great Britain, the Bodleian is particularly rich in Oriental manuscripts and collections of English literature, local history, and early printing. A library was established at the University of Oxford by Thomas de Cobham (died 1327), but it was not completely secured by the university until 1410. Then Humphrey, duke of Gloucester, endowed the institution with books and money for a room between 1411 and 1447. Completed in 1450, the room is still in existence. With the impoverishment of the university, the development of printing, and the growth of college libraries, the university library declined in importance; and in 1550, Edward VI’s commissioners withdrew what books were left. Soon after, the shelves were also dismantled. About 50 years later the library was restored by Sir Thomas Bodley (a collector of medieval manuscripts) and reopened in 1602. Bodley added new buildings, surrounding university buildings were taken over, and additions were made at various times up to the 19th century. A new building, connected with the old buildings by an underground way and designed by Sir Giles Gilbert Scott, was opened in 1946. Marco Polo sailing from VeniceMarco Polo sailing from Venice in 1271, detail from an illuminated manuscript, c. 15th century; in the collection of the Bodleian Library, Oxford, Eng.(more) By agreement with the Stationers’ Company in 1610 and later by the Press Licensing Act of 1662, the Bodleian was entitled to receive a free copy of all books printed in England. The library built up a collection of more than 4,200,000 printed volumes and 50,000 manuscripts. The Bodleian Library includes the Old Library, the Radcliffe Camera, the New Library, and four dependent libraries. This article was most recently revised and updated by J.E. Luebering.
