URL: https://www.sciencedaily.com/
Title: ScienceDaily: Your source for the latest research news
H1: Top Science News
H2: Latest Top Headlines Health News Latest Health Headlines Physical/Tech News Latest Physical/Tech Headlines Environment News Latest Environment Headlines Society/Education News Latest Society/Education Headlines Breaking Trending Topics Strange & Offbeat About this Site
H3: Top Health Top Physical/Tech Top Environment Health & Medicine Mind & Brain Living Well Matter & Energy Space & Time Computers & Math Plants & Animals Earth & Climate Fossils & Ruins Science & Society Education & Learning Business & Industry
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: New! email newsletter top news top news top news top news
Body: Skip to main content Your source for the latest research news Follow: Facebook X/Twitter Subscribe: RSS Feeds Newsletter New! Sign up for our free email newsletter. Top Science News May 1, 2025 Rhythmically Trained Sea Lion Returns for an Encore -- And Performs as Well as Humans May 1, 2025 — Animal research on biomusicality, which looks at whether different species are capable of behaving in ways that show they recognize aspects of music, including rhythm and beat, remains a tantalizing ... Ptero Firma: Footprints Pinpoint When Ancient Flying Reptiles Conquered the Ground May 1, 2025 — A new study links fossilized flying reptile tracks to animals that made them. Fossilized footprints reveal a 160-million-year-old invasion as pterosaurs came down from the trees and onto the ground. ... Landmark Experiment Sheds New Light on the Origins of Consciousness Apr. 30, 2025 — An experiment seven years in the making has uncovered new insights into the nature of consciousness and challenges two prominent, competing scientific theories: Integrated Information Theory (IIT) and Global Neuronal Workspace Theory (GNWT). The ... One of Earth's Ancient Volcanic Mysteries Solved Apr. 30, 2025 — A new study traces a 120-million-year-old 'super-eruption' to its source, offering new insights into Earth's complex geological ... Latest Top Headlines updated 3:01pm EDT Essay Challenge: ChatGPT Vs Students Apr. 30, 2025 — Researchers have been putting ChatGPT essays to the test against real students. A new study reveals that the AI generated essays don't yet live up to the efforts of real students. While the AI essays were found to be impressively coherent and grammatically sound, they fell short in one crucial area -- they lacked a personal touch. It is hoped that the findings could help educators spot cheating ... RELATED TOPICS Educational Psychology Educational Policy Educational Technology Seasonal Changes Affect Alcohol Tolerance and Your Waistline Apr. 30, 2025 — Researchers have found that drug effectiveness, alcohol tolerance, and carbohydrate metabolism change with the seasons. Their findings are based on a comprehensive seasonal gene expression map, which investigated over 54,000 genes in 80 tissues in monkeys across one year. The study has implications for drug prescription and precision ... RELATED TOPICS Alcoholism Diet and Weight Loss Dieting and Weight Control Increasing Physical Activity in Middle Age May Protect Against Alzheimer's Disease Apr. 30, 2025 — An increase in physical activity between the ages of 45 and 65 could help prevent Alzheimer's disease, while inactivity may be detrimental to brain ... RELATED TOPICS Alzheimer's Research Fitness Alzheimer's Move More, Think Sharper Apr. 28, 2025 — A brisk walk, a splash of water aerobics, or even a light jog around the block -- if your heart rate goes up then so too will your brain health according to new ... RELATED TOPICS Fitness Intelligence Child Development Engineers Advance Toward a Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computer Apr. 30, 2025 — Researchers demonstrated extremely strong nonlinear light-matter coupling in a quantum circuit. Stronger coupling enables faster quantum readout and operations, ultimately improving the accuracy of quantum ... RELATED TOPICS Quantum Computers Quantum Physics Physics Scientists Observe How Blobs Form Crystals and Discover a New Crystal Type Apr. 28, 2025 — Crystals -- from sugar and table salt to snowflakes and diamonds -- don't always grow in a straightforward way. Researchers have now captured this journey from amorphous blob to orderly structures. In exploring how crystals form, the researchers also came across an unusual, rod-shaped crystal that hadn't been identified before, naming it 'Zangenite' for the graduate student who discovered ... RELATED TOPICS Nature of Water Chemistry Inorganic Chemistry New Look at Galactic Region Surrounding Our Solar System: Lyman-Alpha Emissions Apr. 28, 2025 — The NASA New Horizons spacecraft's extensive observations of Lyman-alpha emissions have resulted in the first-ever map from the galaxy at this important ultraviolet wavelength, providing a new look at the galactic region surrounding our solar ... RELATED TOPICS Galaxies Sun Stars A Vast Molecular Cloud, Long Invisible, Is Discovered Near Solar System Apr. 28, 2025 — Astrophysicists have discovered a potentially star-forming cloud that is one of the largest single structures in the sky and among the closest to the sun and Earth ever to be detected. The scientists have named the molecular hydrogen cloud 'Eos,' after the Greek goddess of mythology who is the personification of ... RELATED TOPICS Galaxies Astrophysics Astronomy Zoo Life Boosts Object Exploration in Orangutans Apr. 30, 2025 — A new study comparing wild and zoo-housed Sumatran orangutans reveals that life in a zoo significantly alters how orangutans interact with their environment. Researchers analyzed over 12,000 instances of daily exploratory object manipulation (EOM) -- the active manipulation and visual inspection of objects associated with learning and problem-solving -- across 51 orangutans aged 0.5 to 76 years. ... RELATED TOPICS Wild Animals Apes Animal Learning and Intelligence Geobiology: Iron, Sulfur, Heat -- And First Life Apr. 30, 2025 — The very first cells obtained their energy from geochemical reactions. Researchers have now managed to recreate this ancient metabolic process in their ... RELATED TOPICS Origin of Life Fossils Nature Restoring Oil Wells Back to Nature With Moss Apr. 30, 2025 — In what could represent a milestone in ecological restoration, researchers have implemented a method capable of restoring peatlands at tens of thousands of oil and gas exploration sites in Western Canada. The project involves lowering the surface of these decommissioned sites, known as well pads, and transplanting native moss onto them to effectively recreate peatlands. This is the first time ... RELATED TOPICS Ecology Environmental Issues Sustainability 'Scratching' More Than the Ocean's Surface to Map Global Microplastic Movement Apr. 30, 2025 — An international team of scientists has moved beyond just 'scratching the surface,' to understand how microplastics move through and impact the global ocean. For the first time, scientists have mapped microplastic distribution from the surface to the deep sea at a global scale -- revealing not only where plastics accumulate, but how they ... RELATED TOPICS Oceanography Geography Global Warming Top Health ChatGPT Vs Students Alcohol Tolerance and Your Waistline, by Season Stay Active in Middle Age to Ward Off ... Move More, Think Sharper Top Physical/Tech Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computer New Crystal Type Discovered First Lyman-Alpha Map from the Galaxy Vast Molecular Cloud Appears Near Solar System Top Environment Zoo Life Boosts Object Exploration in Orangutans Geobiology: Iron, Sulfur, Heat -- And First Life Restoring Oil Wells Back to Nature With Moss Mapping Global Microplastic Movement more top science stories Health News May 1, 2025 Heart Disease Deaths Worldwide Linked to Chemical Widely Used in Plastics Apr. 29, 2025 — Daily exposure to certain chemicals used to make plastic household items could be linked to more than 356,000 global deaths from heart disease in 2018 alone, a new analysis of population surveys shows. While the chemicals, called phthalates, are in ... Global Study Links Consumption of Ultraprocessed Foods to Preventable Premature Deaths Apr. 28, 2025 — A study analyzing data from nationally representative dietary surveys and mortality data from eight countries (Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, United Kingdom, and United States) ... Why Our Waistlines Expand in Middle Age: Stem Cells Apr. 25, 2025 — It's no secret that our waistlines often expand in middle-age, but the problem isn't strictly cosmetic. Belly fat accelerates aging and slows down metabolism, increasing our risk for developing diabetes, heart problems and other chronic diseases. ... Parts of Our DNA May Evolve Much Faster Than Previously Thought Apr. 23, 2025 — A team of researchers has used advanced DNA sequencing to develop the most comprehensive atlas yet of genetic change through generations, laying the foundations for new insights into the roots of human disease and ... Latest Health Headlines updated 3:01pm EDT Protein Sources Change the Gut Microbiome -- Some Drastically Apr. 30, 2025 — Protein sources appear to have major effects on both the population and function of the mouse gut ... RELATED TOPICS Gastrointestinal Problems Nutrition Cell Biology Bacteria's Mysterious Viruses Can Fan Flames of Antibiotic Damage Apr. 28, 2025 — Scientists built a model that allows them to diminish phage communities from a mouse gut microbiome -- and then bring them back -- without affecting the bacteria. On a test run of their model, researchers found evidence that phages may increase gut bacteria's sensitivity to ... RELATED TOPICS Microbes and More Bacteria Mice Influenza Virus Hacks Cell's Internal System Apr. 28, 2025 — The influenza virus manipulates the body's gene regulation system to accelerate its own spread. A new study also shows that an already approved drug could help strengthen immune defenses -- though its effect in humans remains to be ... RELATED TOPICS HIV and AIDS Virology Molecular Biology Updated Equestrian Helmet Ratings System Adds Racing and High-Speed Events Apr. 28, 2025 — Falling off a horse at high-speed changes the impact to the rider's head and the parameters for a quality helmet, according to new research. The findings indicate that head impacts during falls at high speed generate unique head rotation, which in turn, directly affects helmet ... RELATED TOPICS Accident and Trauma Horses K-12 Education Low Iron Could Cause Brain Fog During Menopause Transition Apr. 28, 2025 — New research sheds light on an understudied area of science: iron levels in the blood and their relationship to cognitive performance in women transitioning into menopause. The findings are good news for women experiencing brain fog and other ... RELATED TOPICS Anemia Alzheimer's Alzheimer's Research Trouble Hearing in Noisy Places and Crowded Spaces? Researchers Say New Algorithm Could Help Hearing Aid Users Apr. 28, 2025 — BU researchers develop a brain-inspired algorithm that can help people with hearing loss pick out conversations in noisy, crowded ... RELATED TOPICS Hearing Loss Hearing Impairment Disability First Synthetic 'Mini Prion' Shows How Protein Misfolding Multiplies Apr. 28, 2025 — Prions transmit their abnormally folded shape onto other proteins. Researchers designed a synthetic fragment of the tau protein that exhibits prion-like behavior. Misfolded tau proteins are the hallmark of many neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia. Study revealed crucial role of water organization in the tau misfolding ... RELATED TOPICS Mad Cow Disease Dementia Huntington's Disease Children's Reading and Writing Develop Better When They Are Trained in Handwriting Apr. 30, 2025 — Researchers explored how manual and keyboard practice influenced children's abilities in their reading and writing learning process. 5-year-olds were taught an artificial alphabet using different techniques, and the conclusion was that children who are trained with pencil and paper assimilate new letters and words ... RELATED TOPICS Literacy Educational Psychology Learning Disorders Engineers Develop Wearable Heart Attack Detection Tech Apr. 30, 2025 — Every second counts when it comes to detecting and treating heart attacks. A new technology may be able to identify heart attacks faster and more accurately than traditional ... RELATED TOPICS Heart Disease Vioxx Medical Devices A Virtual Reality Game Integrating Smell to Fight Cognitive Decline Apr. 30, 2025 — Aiming to address age-related cognitive decline, a growing global health challenge, a team of researchers has developed a VR-based smell-training system to help combat it. This innovative VR game activates memory pathways by incorporating olfactory stimulation in a virtual environment. This game-based method offers an engaging platform for maintaining cognitive function and reducing the risk of ... RELATED TOPICS Intelligence Memory Dementia Study Suggests Dance and Lullabies Aren't Universal Human Behaviors Apr. 29, 2025 — Social singing and dance are often assumed to be hard-wired into the human condition; studies have supported the conclusion that these are common across cultures. But new research from an anthropologist challenges the idea that dance and lullabies are universal among humans. The study draws on 43 years of research with an Indigenous population in ... RELATED TOPICS Music Behavior Media and Entertainment Left or Right Arm? New Research Reveals Why Vaccination Site Matters for Immune Response Apr. 28, 2025 — Scientists have uncovered why vaccines can elicit a stronger immune response if they are administered in the same ... RELATED TOPICS Vaccines Lymphoma Immune System Health & Medicine Protein Sources Change Gut Microbiome Antibiotics and Bacteria's Mysterious Viruses Influenza Virus Hacks Cell's Internal System Equestrian Helmet Ratings Mind & Brain Low Iron Could Cause Brain Fog During Menopause Better Hearing Aids How Protein Misfolding Multiplies Handwriting Helps Kids Learn to Read and Write Living Well Wearable Heart Attack Detection Tech VR Game Uses Smell to Fight Cognitive Decline Dance and Lullabies Not Universal Behaviors Vaccine Effectiveness: Left or Right Arm? more top health stories Physical/Tech News May 1, 2025 Geoengineering Technique Could Cool Planet Using Existing Aircraft Apr. 28, 2025 — A technique to cool the planet, in which particles are added to the atmosphere to reflect sunlight, would not require developing special aircraft but could be achieved using existing large planes, according to a new modelling ... Astronomers Find Earth-Like Exoplanets Common Across the Cosmos Apr. 25, 2025 — Astronomers have discovered that super-Earth exoplanets are more common across the universe than previously thought. While it can be relatively easy to locate worlds that orbit close to their star, planets with wider paths can be difficult to ... Engineering a Robot That Can Jump 10 Feet High -- Without Legs Apr. 23, 2025 — Inspired by the movements of a tiny parasitic worm, engineers have created a 5-inch soft robot that can jump as high as a basketball hoop. Their device, a silicone rod with a carbon-fiber spine, can leap 10 feet high even though it doesn't have ... New Electronic 'Skin' Could Enable Lightweight Night-Vision Glasses Apr. 23, 2025 — Engineers developed a technique to grow and peel ultrathin 'skins' of electronic material that could be used in applications such as night-vision eyewear and autonomous driving in foggy ... Latest Physical/Tech Headlines updated 3:01pm EDT Study Using Simulations Highlights Power of Pooled Data in Environmental Health Research Apr. 28, 2025 — Conflicting findings in environmental epidemiology have long stalled consensus on the health effects of toxic chemicals. A new study suggests that one major reason for these inconsistencies may be the limited exposure ranges in individual studies -- leading to underpowered results and unclear ... RELATED TOPICS Health Policy Public Health Education Workplace Health Layered Semiconductor Shows Potential for Next-Gen Data Storage Apr. 28, 2025 — A squishy, layered material that dramatically transforms under pressure could someday help computers store more data with less energy. That's according to a new study that shows a hybrid zinc telluride-based material can undergo surprising structural changes when squeezed together like a molecular ... RELATED TOPICS Materials Science Optics Computers and Internet Will the Vegetables of the Future Be Fortified Using Tiny Needles? Apr. 29, 2025 — Researchers have shown they can inexpensively nanomanufacture silk microneedles to precisely fortify crops, monitor plant health, and detect soil ... RELATED TOPICS Endangered Plants Agriculture and Food Botany Synchrotron in a Closet: Bringing Powerful 3D X-Ray Microscopy to Smaller Labs Apr. 29, 2025 — For the first time, researchers can study the microstructures inside metals, ceramics and rocks with X-rays in a standard laboratory without needing to travel to a particle accelerator, according to ... RELATED TOPICS Materials Science Engineering and Construction Detectors New Research Shatters Long-Held Beliefs About Asteroid Vesta Apr. 28, 2025 — For decades, scientists believed Vesta, one of the largest objects in our solar system's asteroid belt, wasn't just an asteroid and eventually concluded it was more like a planet with a crust, mantle and core. Now, new research flips this notion on its head. Astronomers reveals Vesta doesn't have a core. These findings startled researchers who, until that point, assumed Vesta was a protoplanet ... RELATED TOPICS Asteroids, Comets and Meteors Extrasolar Planets Solar System Billion-Year-Old Impact in Scotland Sparks Questions About Life on Land Apr. 28, 2025 — New research has revealed that a massive meteorite struck northwestern Scotland about 200 million years later than previously thought, in a discovery that not only rewrites Scotland's geological history but alters our understanding of the evolution of non-marine life on ... RELATED TOPICS Near-Earth Object Impacts Asteroids, Comets and Meteors Geology Volcanic History and Clues to Ancient Life on Mars Apr. 18, 2025 — Researchers use the sophisticated technology on NASA's Perseverance rover to analyze volcanic rocks in Mars' Jezero Crater. Their findings show that some of the same volcanic processes that led to life on Earth happened long ago on Mars, a stunning step toward finding signs of ancient life on the Red ... RELATED TOPICS Mars NASA Space Exploration The Heart of World's Largest Solar Telescope Begins to Beat Apr. 24, 2025 — The world's largest solar telescope has reached an important milestone. The data published now were obtained during the technical commissioning of the ... RELATED TOPICS Sun Solar Flare Space Telescopes How Math Helps to Protect Crops from Invasive Disease Apr. 28, 2025 — New research demonstrates how mathematical modeling can predict outbreaks of toxic fungi in Texas corn crops -- offering a potential lifeline to farmers facing billions in harvest ... RELATED TOPICS Agriculture and Food Food and Agriculture Weather Generative AI Masters the Art of Scent Creation Apr. 23, 2025 — Addressing the challenges of fragrance design, researchers have developed an AI model that can automate the creation of new fragrances based on user-defined scent descriptors. The model uses mass spectrometry profiles of essential oils and corresponding odor descriptors to generate essential oil blends for new scents. This breakthrough is a game-changer for the fragrance industry, moving beyond ... RELATED TOPICS Computer Modeling Mathematics Mathematical Modeling AI Model for Thyroid Cancer Diagnosis, With Over 90% Accuracy and Reduced Consultation Preparation Time Apr. 25, 2025 — An interdisciplinary research team has unveiled the world's first artificial intelligence (AI) model designed to classify both the cancer stage and risk category of thyroid cancer, achieving impressive accuracy exceeding 90%. This innovative AI model promises to significantly cut frontline clinicians' pre-consultation preparation time by ... RELATED TOPICS Today's Healthcare Diseases and Conditions Computer Modeling Hidden Mechanisms in Next-Generation AI Memory Device Apr. 25, 2025 — As artificial intelligence (AI) continues to advance, researchers have identified a breakthrough that could make AI technologies faster and more ... RELATED TOPICS Computers and Internet Spintronics Research Information Technology Matter & Energy Environmental Chemical Exposure: Pooled Data Key Layered Semiconductor: Next-Gen Data Storage Fortifying Vegetables Using Tiny Needles Powerful 3D X-Ray Microscopy for Smaller Labs Space & Time Asteroid Vesta Doesn't Have a Core Billion-Year-Old Impact in Scotland: Life On ... Clues to Possible Ancient Life On Mars World's Largest Solar Telescope Computers & Math Math and Crop Protection Generative AI Masters the Art of Scent Creation AI Model for Thyroid Cancer Diagnosis Shortcut to AI Computation more top physical/tech stories Environment News May 1, 2025 Female Bonobos Keep Males in Check -- Not With Strength, but With Solidarity Apr. 24, 2025 — Female bonobos team up to suppress male aggression against them -- the first evidence of animals deploying this strategy. In 85% of observed coalitions, females collectively targeted males, forcing ... The Oldest Ant Ever Discovered Found Fossilized in Brazil Apr. 24, 2025 — A 113-million-year-old hell ant that once lived in northeastern Brazil is now the oldest ant specimen known to science, finds a new report. The hell ant, which was preserved in limestone, is a member of Haidomyrmecinae -- an extinct subfamily that ... Skeletal Evidence of Roman Gladiator Bitten by Lion in Combat Apr. 23, 2025 — Bite marks found on a skeleton discovered in a Roman cemetery in York have revealed the first archaeological evidence of gladiatorial combat between a human and a ... Melting Glaciers at the End of the Ice Age May Have Sped Up Continental Drift, Fueled Volcanic Eruptions Apr. 23, 2025 — Scientists believe that the motion of Earth's continents through plate tectonics has been largely steady over millions of years. New research, however, suggests this drift can speed up or slow down ... Latest Environment Headlines updated 3:01pm EDT Blackberries With No Thorns? Scientist Assembles Genome of a Blackberry in Major Step to Breed Better Fruit Apr. 28, 2025 — New blackberry varieties could provide a boon for farmers looking to rebound after the decline of Florida citrus and who see an opportunity to meet the growing demand for blackberries, which have soared in popularity in recent ... RELATED TOPICS Agriculture and Food Food and Agriculture Genetics Keeping Tabs on Native Woodlands in Times of Flood and Drought Apr. 24, 2025 — Like farmland in Australia, native forests struggle with drought and flooding, so future management decisions need more sophisticated systems to monitor and manage their water needs. A new study aims to provide a good estimate of water used by trees and plants and bushes under the treetops (or the forest understorey) to help improve management of native ... RELATED TOPICS Water Drought Research Drought Personality Test for Bees Apr. 17, 2025 — Researchers have discovered that honey bees from the same colony have different preferences in terms of defensive behavior. While some are still hesitating, others are already ... RELATED TOPICS Insects (including Butterflies) New Species Agriculture and Food When Sea Stars Fall, Sea Otters Rise: Sea Otters Benefit from Prey Boom Triggered by Loss of Ochre Sea Stars Apr. 30, 2025 — In 2013, a sea star wasting syndrome decimated populations of Pisaster along the west coast of North America and along the Monterey Peninsula in California, where this study was conducted. The orange and purple stars have a hungry appetite for mussels in the rocky intertidal. Without the voracious sea stars lurking around, mussel populations ... RELATED TOPICS Marine Biology Ecology Fish Extreme Rainfall: A Long-Standing Hypothesis on Temperature Dependence Finally Settled? Apr. 28, 2025 — Flash floods resulting from extreme rainfall pose a major risk to people and infrastructure, especially in urban areas. Higher temperatures due to global climate change affect continuous rainfall and short rain showers in somewhat equal measure. However, if both types of precipitation occur at the same time, as is typical for thunderstorm cloud ... RELATED TOPICS Weather Water Grassland Elephant Instead of Wild Boar? What Could Have Been in Europe Apr. 28, 2025 — Even under today's climatic conditions, the long-extinct straight-tusked elephant could still live in Europe. This is the conclusion of a recent study. For this finding, the research group combined fossil finds with reconstructions of past ... RELATED TOPICS Nature Ecology Ecology Research Anatomy of a 'Zombie' Volcano: Investigating the Cause of Unrest Inside Uturuncu Apr. 28, 2025 — Scientists have collaborated to analyze the inner workings of Bolivia's 'zombie' volcano, Uturuncu. By combining seismology, physics models and analysis of rock composition, researchers identify the causes of Uturuncu's unrest, alleviating fears of an imminent ... RELATED TOPICS Volcanoes Natural Disasters Geology Noto Quake 3D Model Adds Dimension to Understand Earthquake Dynamics Apr. 28, 2025 — On Jan. 1, 2024, a 7.5-magnitude earthquake struck the Noto Peninsula in Japan, resulting in extensive damage in the region caused by uplift, when the land rises due to shifting tectonic plates. The observed uplift, however, varied significantly, with some areas experiencing as much as a 5-meter rise of the ground surface. To better understand how the characteristics of the affected fault lines ... RELATED TOPICS Earthquakes Natural Disasters Geology Giant Croclike Carnivore Fossils Found in the Caribbean Apr. 29, 2025 — Imagine a crocodile built like a greyhound -- that's a sebecid. Standing tall, with some species reaching 20 feet in length, they dominated South American landscapes after the extinction of dinosaurs until about 11 million years ago. Or at least, that's what paleontologists thought. A new study shows the Caribbean Islands were a refuge for the last sebecid populations at least 5 million years ... RELATED TOPICS Fossils Evolution Dinosaurs What Rattlesnake Venom Can Teach Us About Evolution: New USF Study Apr. 23, 2025 — A new study found that some rattlesnakes are producing simpler venoms containing fewer and more focused toxin families than complex venoms -- a surprising discovery that challenges long-held ideas about how living alongside a variety of other species influences evolution in a world increasingly shaped by human ... RELATED TOPICS Evolution Evolutionary Biology Nature Phoenician Culture Spread Mainly Through Cultural Exchange Apr. 23, 2025 — Ancient DNA analysis challenges our understanding of the ancient Phoenician-Punic civilization. An international team of researchers analyzing genome-wide data from 210 ancient individuals has found that Levantine Phoenician towns contributed little genetically to Punic populations in the central and western Mediterranean despite their deep cultural, economic, and linguistic ... RELATED TOPICS Cultures Ancient Civilizations Anthropology The Eukaryotic Cell Emerged as an Evolutionary Algorithmic Phase Transition Apr. 21, 2025 — An international collaboration has published groundbreaking research, shedding light on the most significant increase in complexity in the history of life's evolution on Earth: the origin of the eukaryotic ... RELATED TOPICS Evolution Evolutionary Biology Origin of Life Plants & Animals Blackberries With No Thorns Woodlands in Times of Flood and Drought Personality Test for Bees When Sea Stars Fall, Sea Otters Rise Earth & Climate Extreme Rainfall on a Warming Planet Europe: Elephant Instead of Wild Boar? Anatomy of a 'Zombie' Volcano Earthquake Dynamics and Noto Quake Fossils & Ruins Giant Croclike Carnivore Fossils in Caribbean Evolution of Rattlesnake Venom How Phoenician Culture Spread The Eukaryotic Cell's Abrupt Evolution more top environment stories Society/Education News May 1, 2025 Carb Restriction Offers Relief from Calorie Counting Apr. 8, 2025 — The intermittent fasting diet, which involves periods of severe calorie restriction, may be on the way out, as research is suggesting that rather than drastically reducing calories, people can achieve similar metabolic benefits by cutting back on ... In Guatemala, Painted Altar Found at Tikal Adds New Context to Mysterious Maya History Apr. 8, 2025 — Just steps from the center of Tikal, a 2,400-year-old Maya city in the heart of modern-day Guatemala, a global team of researchers has unearthed a buried altar that could unlock the secrets of a ... Chatbot Opens Computational Chemistry to Nonexperts Apr. 7, 2025 — A web platform uses a chatbot to enable any chemist -- including undergraduate chemistry majors -- to configure and execute complex quantum mechanical simulations through ... A Hit of Dopamine Tells Baby Birds When Their Song Practice Is Paying Off Mar. 25, 2025 — By watching the ebb and flow of the brain's chemical signals, researchers are beginning to disentangle the molecular mechanisms underlying the intrinsic motivation to learn. In a new study of zebra finches, researchers show that a hit a dopamine ... Latest Society/Education Headlines updated 3:01pm EDT Climate Change Increases the Risk of Simultaneous Wildfires Apr. 28, 2025 — Climate change is increasing the risk of wildfires in many regions of the world. This is due partly to specific weather conditions -- known as fire weather -- that facilitate the spread of wildfires. Researchers have found that fire weather seasons are increasingly overlapping between eastern Australia and western North America. The research team examined the causes of this shift and its ... RELATED TOPICS Weather Wildfires Severe Weather Personality Traits Shape Our Prosocial Behavior Apr. 28, 2025 — Why do some people do more for the community than others? A new study now shows that personality traits such as extraversion and agreeableness correlate with volunteering and charitable ... RELATED TOPICS Borderline Personality Disorder Behavior Social Psychology London's Low Emission Zones Save Lives and Money Apr. 23, 2025 — Study finds a 18.5% reduction in sick leave following LEZ implementation in Greater London compared to areas in England without low emission ... RELATED TOPICS Health Policy Air Quality Pollution Listeners Use Gestures to Predict Upcoming Words Apr. 22, 2025 — In face-to-face conversations, speakers use hand movements to signal meaning. But do listeners actually use these gestures to predict what someone might say next? In a study using virtual avatars, scientists show that listeners used the avatar's gestures to predict upcoming speech. Both behavioral and EEG data indicated that hand gestures facilitate language processing, illustrating the ... RELATED TOPICS Language Acquisition Relationships Learning Disorders Temporary Anxiety Impacts Learning Apr. 22, 2025 — Researchers found that a brief episode of anxiety may have a bigger influence on a person's ability to learn what is safe and what is not. A new study used a virtual reality game that involved picking flowers with bees in some of the blossoms that would 'sting' the participant, simulated by a mild electrical stimulation on the hand. Researchers discovered that temporary feelings of anxiety had ... RELATED TOPICS Anxiety Psychiatry Educational Psychology Global Survey Highlights the Challenges of VR-Haptic Technology in Dental Education Apr. 25, 2025 — A recent global survey of 156 institutions reveals strong interest in VR-haptic technology for dental training, yet significant barriers impede widespread ... RELATED TOPICS Dentistry Medical Education and Training Educational Technology What Happens in the Brain When Your Mind Blanks Apr. 24, 2025 — Mind blanking is a common experience with a wide variety of definitions ranging from feeling 'drowsy' to 'a complete absence of conscious awareness.' Neuroscientists and philosophers compile what we know about mind blanking, including insights from their own work observing people's brain ... RELATED TOPICS Brain-Computer Interfaces Intelligence Spirituality By 15 Months, Infants Begin to Learn New Words for Objects, Even Those They've Never Seen Apr. 23, 2025 — A new study by developmental scientists offers the first evidence that infants as young as 15 months can identify an object they have learned about from listening to language -- even if the object remains ... RELATED TOPICS Infant and Preschool Learning Language Acquisition Child Development Government Urged to Tackle Inequality in 'Low-Carbon Tech' Like Solar Panels and Electric Cars Apr. 11, 2025 — The UK government needs to go beyond offering subsidies for low-carbon technologies (LCTs) like electric cars and solar panels for energy and heating, if it is to meet its net-zero targets by 2050, a report ... RELATED TOPICS Energy Issues Energy Policy Solar Energy AI Tool Makes Sense of Public Opinion Data in Minutes, Not Months Apr. 10, 2025 — DECOTA transforms open-ended survey responses into clear themes -- helping policymakers make better use of underutilised public ... RELATED TOPICS Computer Modeling Hacking Encryption Modeling Method Provides Smarter Way to Predict Customer Demand Apr. 14, 2025 — Researchers have developed a new forecasting model that helps companies more accurately estimate how many customers are interested in a product -- even when key data is missing. The study introduces a mathematical modeling method that enables businesses to estimate customer interest beyond just completed transactions and traditional forecasting techniques. The approach offers a more precise way ... RELATED TOPICS Computer Modeling Mathematical Modeling Mathematics Conceptualizing Psychological Contract Theory in the Context of Digital Labor Platforms, App Workers, Gig Economy Apr. 9, 2025 — In a new article, researchers explored whether a worker can create a psychological contract with a non-human agent in the form of an algorithm that mediates their relationship with an ... RELATED TOPICS Industrial Relations Education and Employment Child Psychology Science & Society Climate Change Ups Risk of Simultaneous ... Personality Traits Shape Our Prosocial Behavior London's Low Emission Zones Save Lives and Money Listeners Use Gestures to Predict Upcoming Words Education & Learning Temporary Anxiety Impacts Learning VR-Haptic Technology in Dental Education What Happens in the Brain When Your Mind Blanks Infants Can Learn Words from Language Alone Business & Industry Tackling Inequality in Electric Cars Understanding Months of Data in Minutes Smarter Way to Predict Customer Demand Psychological Contracts and Digital Labor more top society/education stories Print Email Share Breaking this hour Rhythmically Trained Sea Lion Keeps the Beat Footprints, Lives of Ancient Flying Reptiles ChatGPT Vs Students Alcohol Tolerance and Your Waistline, by Season Zoo Life Boosts Object Exploration in Orangutans Geobiology: Iron, Sulfur, Heat -- And First Life Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computer Stay Active in Middle Age to Ward Off ... Origins of Consciousness One of Earth's Ancient Volcanic Mysteries Trending Topics this week HEALTH Skin Cancer Osteoporosis Behavior PHYSICAL & TECH Astrophysics Asteroids, Comets and Meteors Nanotechnology ENVIRONMENT Fish Mice Weather Strange & Offbeat HUMAN QUIRKS Will the Vegetables of the Future Be Fortified Using Tiny Needles? What Happens in the Brain When Your Mind Blanks Scientists Trick the Eye Into Seeing New Color 'Olo' BIZARRE THINGS Engineers Advance Toward a Fault-Tolerant Quantum Computer A Vast Molecular Cloud, Long Invisible, Is Discovered Near Solar System High-Wire Act: Soft Robot Can Carry Cargo Up and Down Steep Aerial Wires ODD CREATURES Rhythmically Trained Sea Lion Returns for an Encore -- And Performs as Well as Humans Ptero Firma: Footprints Pinpoint When Ancient Flying Reptiles Conquered the Ground Seasonal Changes Affect Alcohol Tolerance and Your Waistline About this Site ScienceDaily features breaking news about the latest discoveries in science, health, the environment, technology, and more -- from leading universities, scientific journals, and research organizations. Visitors can browse more than 500 individual topics, grouped into 12 main sections (listed under the top navigational menu), covering: the medical sciences and health; physical sciences and technology; biological sciences and the environment; and social sciences, business and education. Headlines and summaries of relevant news stories are provided on each topic page. Stories are posted daily, selected from press materials provided by hundreds of sources from around the world. Links to sources and relevant journal citations (where available) are included at the end of each post. For more information about ScienceDaily, please consult the links listed at the bottom of each page. Toggle navigation Menu SD SD Home Page Top Science News Latest News Home Home Page Top Science News Latest News Health View all the latest top news in the health sciences, or browse the topics below: Health & Medicine Allergy Cancer Cold and Flu Diabetes Heart Disease ... more topics Mind & Brain ADD and ADHD Alzheimer's Headaches Intelligence Psychology ... more topics Living Well Parenting Child Development Stress Nutrition Fitness ... more topics Tech View all the latest top news in the physical sciences & technology, or browse the topics below: Matter & Energy Chemistry Fossil Fuels Nanotechnology Physics Solar Energy ... more topics Space & Time Black Holes Dark Matter Extrasolar Planets Solar System Space Telescopes ... more topics Computers & Math Artificial Intelligence Mathematics Quantum Computers Robotics Virtual Reality ... more topics Enviro View all the latest top news in the environmental sciences, or browse the topics below: Plants & Animals Agriculture and Food Biology Biotechnology Extinction Microbes and More ... more topics Earth & Climate Climate Earthquakes Geology Global Warming Pollution ... more topics Fossils & Ruins Anthropology Archaeology Dinosaurs Evolution Paleontology ... more topics Society View all the latest top news in the social sciences & education, or browse the topics below: Science & Society Arts & Culture Economics Privacy Issues Public Health Sports ... more topics Business & Industry Computers & Internet Energy & Resources Engineering Medical Technology Transportation ... more topics Education & Learning Creativity Educational Psychology Infant & Preschool Learning Disorders STEM Education ... more topics Quirky Top News Human Quirks Odd Creatures Bizarre Things Weird World Keyword:Search Free Subscriptions Stay informed with ScienceDaily's free email newsletter, updated daily and weekly. Or view our many newsfeeds in your RSS reader: Email Newsletter RSS Feeds Follow Us Keep up to date with the latest news from ScienceDaily via social networks: Facebook X / Twitter Have Feedback? Tell us what you think of ScienceDaily -- we welcome both positive and negative comments. Have any problems using the site? Questions? Leave Feedback Contact Us About This Site | Staff | Contribute | Advertise | Privacy Policy | Editorial Policy | Terms of Use Copyright 1995-2024 ScienceDaily or by other parties, where indicated. All rights controlled by their respective owners. Content on this website is for information only. It is not intended to provide medical or other professional advice. Views expressed here do not necessarily reflect those of ScienceDaily, contributors or partners. Financial support for ScienceDaily comes from advertisements and referral programs.
