URL: https://britannica.com/topic/May-Day-international-observance
Title: May Day | History, Meaning, Traditions, & Facts | Britannica
H1: May Day
H2: News •
H3: Why is May Day celebrated? What event does May Day commemorate?
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: May Day
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. May Day Table of Contents Introduction & Top Questions References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Images & Videos Related Questions Why is May Day celebrated? What was the Haymarket Affair? Who was involved in the Haymarket Affair? How did the Haymarket Affair affect the labour movement? Why was the Haymarket Affair important? Read Next Happy Halloween Why Is Labor Day Celebrated in September? Columbus Day 26 Decade-Defining Events in U.S. History Thanksgiving Day in the United States Discover Timeline of the American Civil Rights Movement How Many Countries Are There in the World? What Comes After Terabyte? 7 Deadliest Weapons in History 9 Questions About the Vietnam War Answered Did Duchess Anastasia Survive Her Family’s Execution? Nostradamus and His Prophecies Contents Lifestyles & Social Issues Festivals & Holidays May Day march in New York City March in New York City on Workers' Day, May 1, 1909. (more) May Day international observance Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/topic/May-Day-international-observance Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites The Guardian - May Day is not about maypoles: the history of international workers' day National Museum of American History - May Day: America's traditional, radical, complicated holiday, Part 1 Central Intelligence Agency - Spy Pilot: Francis Gary Powers, The U-2 Incident, and a Controversial Cold War Legacy (PDF) Ask the Chatbot a Question Also known as: International Workers’ Day, Workers’ Day Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: May 1, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Also called: Workers’ Day or International Workers’ Day (Show more) Related Topics: labour holiday May labor movement (Show more) See all related content Top Questions Why is May Day celebrated? May Day, also called Workers’ Day or International Workers’ Day, is the day that commemorates the struggles and gains made by workers and the labour movement. It is observed in many countries on May 1. In the United States and Canada, a similar observance, known as Labor Day, occurs on the first Monday of September. What event does May Day commemorate? In 1889, May 1 was designated May Day, a day in support of workers, by an international federation of socialist groups and trade unions in commemoration of the Haymarket Affair, a violent confrontation that took place on May 4, 1886, in Chicago, Illinois. News • May Day demonstrations in US and around the globe protest Trump agenda • May 1, 2025, 9:41 PM ET (AP) ...(Show more) The Latest: Trump names Rubio as acting national security adviser, taps Waltz as UN ambassador • May 1, 2025, 7:59 PM ET (AP) Show less May Day, day commemorating the historic struggles and gains made by workers and the labour movement, observed in many countries on May 1. In the United States and Canada a similar observance, known as Labor Day, occurs on the first Monday of September. Labor Day in the United StatesLearn the origin of Labor Day in the United States.(more) In 1889 an international federation of socialist groups and trade unions designated May 1 as a day in support of workers, in commemoration of the Haymarket Riot in Chicago (1886). Five years later, U.S. Pres. Grover Cleveland, uneasy with the socialist origins of Workers’ Day, signed legislation to make Labor Day—already held in some states on the first Monday of September—the official U.S. holiday in honour of workers. Canada followed suit not long afterward. 1 of 2 How did Labor Day become a national holiday?The first Labor Day in the United States was celebrated on Tuesday, September 5, 1882, in New York City. (more)See all videos for this article 2 of 2 May DayWorkers marching in Moscow's Red Square, May 1, 2015.(more) In Europe May 1 was historically associated with rural pagan festivals (see May Day), but the original meaning of the day was gradually replaced by the modern association with the labour movement. In the Soviet Union, leaders embraced the new holiday, believing it would encourage workers in Europe and the United States to unite against capitalism. The day became a significant holiday in the Soviet Union and in the Eastern-bloc countries, with high-profile parades, including one in Moscow’s Red Square presided over by top government and Communist Party functionaries, celebrating the worker and showcasing Soviet military might. In Germany Labour Day became an official holiday in 1933 after the rise of the Nazi Party. Ironically, Germany abolished free unions the day after establishing the holiday, virtually destroying the German labour movement. On This Day: May 1Kurt Heintz of Encyclopædia Britannica explores the significance of May 1 as a labour holiday, a day traditionally used to celebrate the return of spring and much else.(more) With the breakup of the Soviet Union and the fall of communist governments in eastern Europe in the late 20th century, large-scale May Day celebrations in that region declined in importance. In dozens of countries around the world, however, May Day has been recognized as a public holiday, and it continues to be celebrated with picnics and parties while serving as the occasion for demonstrations and rallies in support of workers. The Editors of Encyclopaedia BritannicaThis article was most recently revised and updated by Encyclopaedia Britannica.
