URL: https://britannica.com/Animals-Nature
Title: Animals & Nature | Britannica
H1: Animals & Nature
H2: Popular Editor's Picks Spotlight: Brown Bears Quizzes Videos Galleries Featured Categories
H3: Marine Life Plants Mammals
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Animals & Nature The Fastest Animals on Earth In the animal kingdom, speed can mean the difference between life and death. © Anup Shah—Stockbyte/Getty Images © Leah-Anne Thompson/Shutterstock.com Working Like a Dog: 7 Animals with Jobs Throughout history a variety of animals have been trained to perform valuable tasks. © Leah-Anne Thompson/Shutterstock.com Popular The Difference Between Alligators and Crocodiles 9 of the World’s Deadliest Spiders Titanosaurs: 8 of the World's Biggest Dinosaurs Do Plants Feel Pain? Editor's Picks cassowary Cassowary, (genus Casuarius), any of several species of large flightless birds of the Australo-Papuan region. Cassowaries are the only members of the family Casuariidae and belong to the order Casuariiformes, which also includes the emu. There are three species (counted by some experts as six), 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms Don’t be killed by the gilled! coral Coral, any of a variety of invertebrate marine organisms of the class Anthozoa (phylum Cnidaria) that are characterized by skeletons—external or internal—of a stonelike, horny, or leathery consistency. The term coral is also applied to the skeletons of those animals, particularly to those of the How Deadly Are Australia’s Animals? Australia is notorious for its deadly animals. But how likely are they to actually kill you? 6 Real-Life Man-Eating Animals Lions and tigers and bears, oh my! Beyond Venus Flytraps: The Plants that Eat Meat It’s a plant-eat-bug world! 9 Animals That Look Like Leaves Live and let leaf. shoebill Shoebill, (Balaeniceps rex), large African wading bird, a single species that constitutes the family Balaenicipitidae (order Balaenicipitiformes, Ciconiiformes, or Pelecaniformes). The species is named for its clog-shaped bill, which is an adaptation for catching and holding the large, slippery Spotlight: Brown Bears These shaggy-haired bears, native to Europe, Asia, and North America, include species such as the Grizzly and the Kodiak bear, which weighs up to 720kg (1,600 pounds) and is often considered the world's largest carnivore. All About the Brown Bear Family Watch as Hungry Brown Bears Catch Pacific Salmon Enter the World of Kodiak Bears Quizzes Deadliest Animals Quiz Do you know which species of shark is most likely to attack a human? Or what animal has the strongest bite? Name That Flower! Can you tell the difference between a lilac and a hyacinth? Fruit or Vegetable? A Quiz How to be a smarty-pants in the produce aisle. Moms of the Animal Kingdom Quiz The mother of all animal quizzes. Videos How chameleons change color—and why Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. How chameleons change color—and why Grasshoppers vs. crickets: What's the difference? Do carnivorous plants actually eat their prey? The world's largest lizard: The Komodo dragon Do mushrooms need sunlight? Galleries Jellyfish Baobab Trees Lions Gymnosperms Turtles Sharks Featured Categories Marine Life Do Sharks Really Die if They Stop Swimming? We’ve all heard the rumours. But what really happens when a shark stops swimming? A Dose of Dolphin-Induced Dopamine: 8 Species of Adorable Cetacean Splish splash…give your brain a feel-good bath. What’s the Difference Between Seals and Sea Lions? Beneath our blubber, aren’t we all just the same? 10 of the World’s Most Dangerous Fish Don’t let their innocent fishy faces fool you. Plants Botanical Sex: 9 Alluring Adaptations Plants gettin’ it on. Do Plants Emit Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide at Night? Most plants release only one gas at night, but there are exceptions. 7 Dangerous Plants You Should Never Touch Don’t even think about it… Do Plants Have Sexes? Are plants male or female? Does that question even make sense? Mammals 7 Questions About Mammals Answered A few important things you wanted to know about mammals. What’s the Difference Between Bison and Buffalo? Where exactly do buffalo roam? Are Cows Really Unable to Walk Down Stairs? We know they can get up stairs, but what about moo-ving back down? zebra Zebra, any of three species of strikingly black-and-white striped mammals of the horse family Equidae (genus Equus): the plains zebra (E. quagga), which is found in rich grasslands over much of eastern and southern Africa; Grevy’s zebra (E. grevyi), which lives in arid, sparsely wooded areas in History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
