URL: https://britannica.com/Arts-Culture
Title: Arts & Culture | Britannica
H1: Arts & Culture
H2: Popular Editor's Picks Spotlight: Impressionism Quizzes Videos Galleries Featured Categories
H3: Art Dance Film
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Arts & Culture What’s the Difference Between Modern and Contemporary Art? The two terms are not interchangeable in the world of art. © Franco Ricci/Dreamstime.com Steve Cotton/Alamy Art Restoration: Beyond Canvas The process of art conservation and restoration must take into account a number of factors. Steve Cotton/Alamy Popular 12 Novels Considered the Greatest Ever Written We Are the World 10 Greatest Basketball Players of All Time Why Is Alcohol Measured by Proof? Editor's Picks 10 Paintings You Should See at the Met in New York City Learn before you look. The Thousand and One Nights The Thousand and One Nights, collection of largely Middle Eastern and Indian stories of uncertain date and authorship. Its tales of Aladdin, Ali Baba, and Sindbad the Sailor have almost become part of Western folklore, though these were added to the collection only in the 18th century in European 5 Incredible Native American Artists Native American artists to know. Maya Lin Maya Lin is an American architect and sculptor concerned with environmental themes who is best known for her design of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C. The daughter of intellectuals who had fled China in 1948, Lin received a bachelor’s degree in 1981 from Yale University in New hip-hop Hip-hop, cultural movement that attained widespread popularity in the 1980s and ’90s and also the backing music for rap, the musical style incorporating rhythmic and/or rhyming speech that became the movement’s most lasting and influential art form. Although widely considered a synonym for rap The “Howl” Heard Round the World In 1956, Allen Ginsberg’s groundbreaking Beat poem “Howl” was published in the collection Howl and Other Poems. Yayoi Kusama Yayoi Kusama is a Japanese artist who is a self-described “obsessional artist,” known for her extensive use of polka dots and for her infinity installations. She employed painting, sculpture, performance art, and installations in a variety of styles, including Pop art and Minimalism. By her own Street Photography: How a Single Camera Brought About a Genre The invention of the Leica camera allowed photographers to move through the streets and capture moments that come and go in the blink of an eye. Spotlight: Impressionism Impressionism comprises the work produced between about 1867 and 1886 by a group of artists, headlined by Claude Monet and Pierre Auguste Renoir, who shared a set of related approaches and techniques. The most conspicuous characteristic was an attempt to accurately and objectively record visual reality in terms of transient effects of light and color. Impressionism: A Timeline The Life and Times of Pierre-Auguste Renoir Get to Know Berthe Morisot's Woman at Her Toilette Quizzes Name That Hat! Quiz Time to put on your thinking cap. Famous Novels, Last Lines Quiz Needless to say, spoiler alert. Guess the Game Quiz Roll the dice and go all in. Iconic Pop Culture Villains Quiz Do you know what famous villain’s costume was inspired by samurai? What bad guy’s middle name is Marvolo? Test your knowledge about pop culture’s dark side with this quiz about iconic villains! Videos How Fred Astaire became a dancer Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. How Fred Astaire became a dancer Watch and listen: How Auto-Tune changes your voice What is Impressionism? How Beauty Looking Back reflects Japanese history How did opera's greatest soprano lose her voice? Galleries Vincent van Gogh Paris Leonardo da Vinci Featured Categories Art 5 Revealing Paintings by Caravaggio Learn before you look. The Group of Seven Remembered In the 1910s and ’20s, Tom Thomson and the Group of Seven created Canada’s first important national art movement with their landscape paintings. 5 Incredible Native American Artists Native American artists to know. 10 Modernist Art Movements Is this high art, or could your kid do that? Dance Katherine Dunham Katherine Dunham was an American dancer and choreographer who was a pioneer in the field of dance anthropology. Her fieldwork inspired her innovative interpretations of dance in the Caribbean, South America, and Africa. Dunham early became interested in dance. While a student at the University of Savion Glover Savion Glover is an American dancer and choreographer who became known for his unique pounding style of tap dancing, called “hitting.” He brought renewed interest in dance, particularly among youths and minorities. As a young child, Glover displayed an affinity for rhythms, and at age four he began Agnes de Mille Agnes de Mille was an American dancer and choreographer who further developed the narrative aspect of dance and made innovative use of American themes, folk dances, and physical idioms in her choreography of musical plays and ballets. Her father was the playwright William Churchill DeMille, her Mallika Sarabhai Mallika Sarabhai is an Indian classical dancer and choreographer, actress, writer, and social activist known for her promotion of the arts as a vehicle for social change. The daughter of renowned physicist Vikram Sarabhai and dancer and choreographer Mrinalini Sarabhai, she was brought up in a Film Federico Fellini Federico Fellini was an Italian film director who was one of the most celebrated and singular filmmakers of the period after World War II. Influenced early in his career by the Neorealist movement, he developed his own distinctive methods that superimposed dreamlike or hallucinatory imagery upon Ava DuVernay Ava DuVernay is an American director, producer, and writer whose film and television projects explore the African American experience. Among her best-known works are the film Selma (2014), the documentary 13th (2016), and the miniseries When They See Us (2019). DuVernay was the first African David Lynch David Lynch was an American filmmaker and screenwriter who is known for his uniquely disturbing and mind-bending visual work. His films juxtapose the cheerfully mundane with the shockingly macabre and often defy explanation. Lynch’s father was a research scientist with the U.S. Forest Service, and Sofia Coppola Sofia Coppola is an American film director, producer, screenwriter, and fashion designer known best for her films The Virgin Suicides (1999) and Lost in Translation (2003). In 2004, she was the first American woman to be nominated for an Academy Award in the category of best director. Coppola is History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
