URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Technology
Title: Technology Portal | Britannica
H1: Technology
H2: Featured content, May 02, 2025 Technology Quizzes Technology Videos Technology Subcategories
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Technology Technology Humankind has long striven to improve its living conditions through the development of tools, instruments, and transportation and communications systems, all with the goal of making our lives easier, more productive and—why not?—more fun, too. Thanks to human curiosity and technological research, many significant inventions have been made throughout history that in turn made a difference in our daily lives. Browse Subcategories Agriculture & Agricultural Technology Cars & Other Vehicles Computers Engineering Industry Inventions The Web & Communication Featured content, May 02, 2025 Why Do You Have to Turn Off Electronic Devices on an Airplane? An explanation for why passengers are barred from fully using their electronic devices on passenger flights. Influential Computer Programming Languages Learn how to speak computer. What Is Known (and Not Known) About Area 51 Area 51 has spawned more conspiracy theories than perhaps any other military facility in the world. Here’s what we know (and... 6 Signs It’s Already the Future If you thought future tech was just for sci-fi flicks, hold on to your non-rocket-powered seats. military technology Military technology, range of weapons, equipment, structures, and vehicles used specifically for the purpose of warfare.... invention Invention, the act of bringing ideas or objects together in a novel way to create something that did not exist before. Ever... computer Computer, device for processing, storing, and displaying information. Computer once meant a person who did computations,... history of technology History of technology, the development over time of systematic techniques for making and doing things. The term technology,... Technology Quizzes Computers and Technology Quiz Computers host websites composed of HTML and send text messages as simple as...LOL. Hack into this quiz and let some technology... Electronics & Gadgets Quiz Who is the maker of the iPhone? In what year was the DVD introduced? The iPod? Scan these questions and test your knowledge... Computers and Operating Systems How does the Internet move information between computers? What is the operating system made by Microsoft? Log into this quiz... Can You Hear Me Now? Who invented the radio? Who first used radio waves to transmit the human voice? From phonographs and jukeboxes to Walkmans... Computers: Fact or Fiction? Is QWERTY a computer language? Was the first Web site established in the U.S.? Log into this computer quiz and prove that... Technological Ingenuity From the first tools of early humans to IBM’s Deep Blue computer, learn more about technological ingenuity in this quiz. Gadgets and Technology: Fact or Fiction? Is virtual reality only used in toys? Have robots ever been used in battle? From computer keyboards to flash memory, learn... Acoustics and Radio Technology: Fact or Fiction? Do cellular phones use relayed radio signals? From antennas to tweeters, test the strength of your mental signals in this... Internet Firsts: Fact or Fiction? You may fancy yourself a denizen of the internet, but how much do you know about its history? Test your knowledge with this... Mobile Phones Hello? Can you hear me now? Test your knowledge of on-the-go communication with this mobile phones quiz! Technology Videos Learn about the mining and purification of silicon Learn about effects of mercury used in gold mining on drinking water of innocent wildlife in Amazon Basin Follow the Delta Queen down the Mississippi River and learn how steam power advanced naval architecture How is E10 biofuel made from crops? How Henry Ford's assembly line revolutionized factory production Know how a helicopter stays up in the air and how its rotor generates lift Watch a silent short of Thomas Edison, who invented the phonograph and incandescent electric light View the construction of the monumental skyscraper, One World Trade Center, New York City Know how Edouard Benedictus invented the laminated safety glass The science and sustainability of bioplastics Image Gallery Technology View Gallery Never Miss a Day in History Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers delivered right to your inbox. Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Technology Subcategories Agriculture & Agricultural Technology Agriculture, the active production of useful plants or animals in ecosystems that have been created by people. Agriculture has often been conceptualized narrowly, in terms of specific combinations of activities and organisms—wet-rice production in Asia, wheat farming in Europe, cattle ranching in the Americas, and the like—but a more holistic perspective holds that humans are environmental engineers who disrupt terrestrial habitats in specific ways. Articles farm machinery agriculture crop rotation agriculture agricultural technology Cars & Other Vehicles Automobile, byname auto, also called motorcar or car, a usually four-wheeled vehicle designed primarily for passenger transportation and commonly propelled by an internal-combustion engine using a volatile fuel. Articles Model T automobile sled ship watercraft Computers Have computers replaced dogs as man's best friend? They've certainly become an indispensable part of daily life for most people in our modern society. The first modern computers used analog systems, which were especially useful for solving problems and simulating dynamic systems in real time. By the 1960s, digital computers had largely replaced their analog counterparts. Later there was a similar transition from mainframe computers to personal computers. The advent of personal computers brought computers into the individual consumer's home for the first time. Rapid developments in computer and Internet technology powered an ever-expanding selection of handheld digital devices such as the Palm Pilot, BlackBerry, iPhone, and iPod. Computer chips were increasingly embedded in consumer devices of all sorts, including cars, cameras, kitchen appliances, toys, watches, and much more, reinforcing the interconnected nature of the world in which we now live. Articles zombie computer artificial intelligence Bill Gates American computer programmer, businessman, and philanthropist Engineering Engineering, the application of science to the optimum conversion of the resources of nature to the uses of humankind. The field has been defined by the Engineers Council for Professional Development, in the United States, as the creative application of “scientific principles to design or develop structures, machines, apparatus, or manufacturing processes, or works utilizing them singly or in combination; or to construct or operate the same with full cognizance of their design; or to forecast their behaviour under specific operating conditions; all as respects an intended function, economics of operation and safety to life and property.” The term engineering is sometimes more loosely defined, especially in Great Britain, as the manufacture or assembly of engines, machine tools, and machine parts. Articles Draper Prize engineering award naval architecture radar electronics Industry Industry, a group of productive enterprises or organizations that produce or supply goods, services, or sources of income. In economics, industries are customarily classified as primary, secondary, and tertiary; secondary industries are further classified as heavy and light. Articles clothing and footwear industry pharmaceutical industry manufacturing Inventions Without the efforts of famed inventors such as Thomas Edison, James Watt, Alexander Graham Bell, and the Wright brothers, our daily life today would look a lot different. Landmark inventions like the printing press, steam engine, telephone, incandescent light bulb, and airplane heralded new stages of progress in technology and spurred further innovation. Articles Thomas Edison American inventor research and development Leonardo da Vinci Italian artist, engineer, and scientist The Web & Communication The development of the World Wide Web had a massive impact on the ways in which people interact and communicate, ultimately paving the way for the heavily interconnected world that we live in today. Although Internet communication dominates in many spheres of life, other means of communication remain no less important. Articles X social media platform satellite communication Tim Berners-Lee British scientist Home Technology History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
