URL: https://britannica.com/list/5-unbelievable-facts-about-christopher-columbus
Title: 5 Unbelievable Facts About Christopher Columbus | Britannica
H1: 5 Unbelievable Facts About Christopher Columbus
H2: Christopher Columbus Was Not His Real Name Speaking of Names, Those Boats Were Not Named What You Think He Made Four Journeys to the “New World” His Remains Did About as Much Traveling as He Did in Life He (Maybe) Was Not Great at Math
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: 
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Discover Timeline of the 1990s Where Is “Old Zealand”? All 81 References in Fall Out Boy’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained Inventors and Inventions of the Industrial Revolution Did Duchess Anastasia Survive Her Family’s Execution? Is Australia an Island? Why Is the Mona Lisa So Famous? Home List World History History & Society Actions Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/list/5-unbelievable-facts-about-christopher-columbus 5 Unbelievable Facts About Christopher Columbus Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/list/5-unbelievable-facts-about-christopher-columbus Written by Alison Eldridge Alison Eldridge was Managing Editor at Encyclopaedia Britannica. Alison Eldridge Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Christopher Columbus Was Not His Real Name Christopher ColumbusChristopher Columbus, oil painting, said to be the most accurate likeness of the explorer, attributed to Ridolfo del Ghirlandaio, c. 1525.The Granger Collection, New York Although Columbus remains a prominent historical figure around the world and has been researched and written about for centuries, there are many details of his life that are still a mystery. Many scholars agree that he was born in Genoa, which is now part of Italy, although there are theories that he may have originated in Spain or even in Poland or Greece. In Italian he is known as Cristoforo Colombo, which was long thought to be his birth name, and in Spanish as Cristóbal Colón. But he has also been referred to, by himself and others, as Christoual, Christovam, Christofferus de Colombo, and even Xpoual de Colón. There is even a theory that he adopted the name from a pirate named Colombo. Speaking of Names, Those Boats Were Not Named What You Think Christopher Columbus's fleetIllustration depicting Christopher Columbus's fleet departing from Spain in 1492.Kean Collection/Hulton Archive/Getty Images Ask any American schoolchildren and they’ll tell you Columbus’s ships were named Niña, Pinta, and Santa Maria. However, at least two of those were likely nicknames. In Columbus’s time it was the custom in Spain to name ships after saints and to call them by nicknames instead. La Niña was likely a nickname for a ship called Santa Clara. The nickname is thought to have come from the name of the ship’s owner, Juan Niño. It is unknown what the Pinta’s original name might have been. Santa Maria is a perfectly saintly name for the third, which was also nicknamed La Gallega. He Made Four Journeys to the “New World” Landing of ColumbusLanding of Columbus, oil on canvas by John Vanderlyn, 1846; in the U.S. Capitol, Washington, D.C.Architect of the Capitol In 1492 Columbus did sail the ocean blue. He also sailed it in 1493, 1498, and 1502. Although many people may have an image of Columbus planting a flag in the lower half of Florida, he really only explored a small area of the Caribbean—which included the Bahamas, Cuba, and Jamaica—and parts of Central America. His Remains Did About as Much Traveling as He Did in Life Christopher ColumbusStatue of Christopher Columbus at Port Vell in Barcelona.Jupiterimages After Columbus died in 1506, he was buried in Valladolid, Spain. Three years later his remains were taken to his family mausoleum, which was in Sevilla. In 1542, in accordance with the will of his son Diego, Columbus’s remains were transferred to Santo Domingo, Hispaniola (now in the Dominican Republic). Hispaniola was ceded to France by Spain, and in 1795 Columbus’s bones were moved to Havana, Cuba. More than a hundred years later they were shipped back across the Atlantic and returned to Sevilla in 1898. He (Maybe) Was Not Great at Math Ptolemy's world mapPtolemy's map of the world, originally created in the 2nd century ce; this version was printed in Ulm, Germany, in 1482.Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. At the time Columbus made his famous journey, a lot of overseas travel was guesswork. The exact size of the planet Earth was unknown, and there were two main ways of measuring degrees of latitude—the method developed by the Greek philosopher Poseidonius and the method developed by the medieval Arabs. In making his own calculations, Columbus argued that the circumference yielded by both methods was the same…ignoring, or forgetting, that Arab miles were longer than Roman miles. Using that data, which ultimately rendered the planet about 25 percent smaller, Columbus assured his backers that his small wooden ships could make it from Spain to Japan in 30 days. Some scholars think Columbus willfully misrepresented the distance, but the jury is still out. Load More
