URL: https://britannica.com/quiz/browse
Title: Trivia Quizzes | Britannica
H1: Games & Quizzes
H2: New Quizzes Featured Games Editors' Picks Popular Featured Categories Recent Quizzes All Quiz Categories
H3: 
H4: Science Geography & Travel World History
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Games Quordle Can you solve four words at once? Tightrope A daily trivia game Blossom Pick the best words Octordle The party starts at eight Pilfer A delightful ruthless word game The Missing Letter A daily crossword with a twist Twofer Goofer Think you know it, poet? Victordle Play head-to-head! Sudoku Your daily logic challenge Britannica Quizzes The Dating Game: Which Came First? Vol. 2 Figure Out the Acronyms ASAP Vocabulary Quiz All Britannica Quizzes All M-W Quizzes Britannica Menu Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Britannica.com Games & Quizzes See All Quiz Categories Entertainment & Pop Culture Geography & Travel Health & Medicine Lifestyles & Social Issues Literature Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Science Sports & Recreation Technology Visual Arts World History Image & Picture Quizzes Vocabulary Quizzes The Dating Game: Which Came First? Vol. 2 A second chance to guess which option happened first. Figure Out the Acronyms ASAP Vocabulary Quiz Acronyms are abbreviations that can be said as words, such as AWOL, NASA, and ASAP. See if you can figure out the words within these words. New Quizzes Find the Missing Link Quiz Figure out the word that fits both halves of the clue. Challenging Standardized Test Words Quiz Vol. 3 You’re on your own for the math section. 50 States, 50 Fun Facts Quiz Find out something that makes each state great. See All Featured Games Quordle Can you solve four words at once? Tightrope A daily trivia game Blossom Pick the best words Octordle The party starts at eight Pilfer A delightful ruthless word game The Missing Letter A daily crossword with a twist Twofer Goofer Think you know it, poet? Victordle Play head-to-head! Sudoku Your daily logic challenge Editors' Picks Guess the Countries of the World Quiz Test your global positioning skills. Facts You Should Know: The Periodic Table Quiz This quiz is a gas…and a liquid and a solid. From Athena to Zeus: Basics of Greek Mythology Do you know which hero took a dip in the River Styx? Or what... Guess the Bones and Muscles Quiz Bone up on your knowledge of the human body. Guess the Sport! Quiz Pick the right sport for the given gear. The Irish Quiz Try your luck with these questions, spanning from Jonathan Swift... Name That Thing: Around the House Quiz How well do you know the items under your own roof? Disney Quiz Not your average Mickey Mouse quiz Face Your Fears Vocabulary Quiz Everybody's scared of something, from insects to a whole country.... Great Moments in Sports Quiz What animal was used to curse the Chicago Cubs? Who overcame... Which Came First? Vocabulary Quiz Jeggings or mom jeans? Given a pair of words,... Name That U.S. State Quiz This quiz is all over the map. What Did You Just Call Me? Vocabulary Quiz See if you can tell the insults from the compliments. Famous Novels, First Lines Quiz Can you identify these novels by their famous first lines? Best Picture Movie Quote Quiz Take this quiz or you may regret it. Maybe not today, maybe not... Ultimate Bird Trivia Quiz See if you will soar with the eagles or go the way of the dodo. The Love Quiz Romance and physical attraction in history, literature, and science…what’s... Name That Color! Can you tell chartreuse from vermilion? First Ladies of the United States Quiz They have been hostesses, helpers, advisers, gatekeepers, guardians,... The Dog Breed Quiz Find out which breed can outrun a cheetah, which breed was created... Popular Name That World Flag! Our salute to flags from around the world. Can you name the countries... Guess the Countries of the World Quiz Test your global positioning skills. U.S. State Capitals Quiz From Albany to Trenton, can you name them all? World Capitals Quiz Can you identify the world’s national capitals? In this quiz... Can You Answer These Questions from the United States Citizenship Test? What is a Constitutional amendment? Who wrote the Declaration... Periodic Table of the Elements Test your bond with the periodic table of elements in this quiz... European Capitals Quiz From the Atlantic to the Urals, backpack your way across the... World War I Quiz Involving all the world’s superpowers, World War I resulted in... Countries and Capitals Quiz Know the atlas backward and forward? Match over 190 capital cities... Astronomy and Space Quiz What makes a planet a dwarf planet? How many miles are in a light-year?... Featured Categories See All Quiz Categories Entertainment & Pop Culture Geography & Travel Health & Medicine Lifestyles & Social Issues Literature Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Science Sports & Recreation Technology Visual Arts World History Image & Picture Quizzes Vocabulary Quizzes Science Guess the Animal Eyes Quiz Can you tell these creatures just by looking at their peepers? Name That Thing: Tools A handy quiz to test your tool acumen. Name That Magnified Object! Can you figure out what these common items are when they're extremely magnified? Geography & Travel Are You Smarter Than a 1912 Middle Schooler? Quiz The questions in this quiz are based an eighth-grade exam administered over a hundred years ago in Kentucky. Flags of the World Quiz: Undercover Edition Can you identify the country based on just a fraction of a flag? Where in America is That? Crisscross the U.S. by placing these famous landmarks. World History Facts You Should Know: American Revolution Give me trivia or give me death! Who Said It? Famous Quotes Quiz Can you name the people associated with these famous quotations? Facts You Should Know: The Cold War Quiz In Soviet Russia, quiz takes YOU Recent Quizzes Find the Missing Link Quiz Figure out the word that fits both halves of the clue. Challenging Standardized Test Words Quiz Vol. 3 You’re on your own for the math section. 50 States, 50 Fun Facts Quiz Find out something that makes each state great. Guess the City by Its River Quiz Go with the flow by pairing these famous rivers with cities around... Spot the Misspelled Word Quiz Think you can detect a spelling error from a mile away? We try... Little Words, Big Vocabulary Quiz Time to sweat the small stuff. Guess the U.S. State by Its Neighbors See how well you know your boundaries. Hollywood What If Quiz Who else could have voiced Darth Vader? Which comedian could... A Good Old-Fashioned Quiz Can you name these antiquated items? That Groovy ’70s Quiz Major events and pop culture of the decade that brought you Watergate... The Dating Game: Which Came First? Two monumental choices, one right answer. Guess the U.S. City Can you pin down the names of these places? Can You Remember These Mnemonics? Quiz Fourteen (hopefully) unforgettable terms. Who Said It? Famous Quotes Quiz Can you name the people associated with these famous quotations? Australian Vocabulary Quiz Go beyond the barbie with these bonzer questions about Aussie... Are You Smarter Than a 1912 Middle Schooler? Quiz The questions in this quiz are based an eighth-grade exam administered... Name that Tree! Quiz A quiz that’s all bark, no bite. Who’s Missing? Quiz These pop culture groups are short one person. Can you figure... That ’90s Quiz All the major events and pop culture of the decade that brought... Name That Dog! Can you tell the difference between a Chihuahua and a Chow Chow? Facts You Should Know: American Revolution Give me trivia or give me death! Which Is Taller? Quiz Twenty questions of epic proportions. Guess the Country by Its Neighbors Quiz Figure out if your geography skills border on greatness Name That Bird! Quiz Are you as wise as an owl or just another birdbrain? Name That Greek God Quiz Prepare for your next trip to Mount Olympus by identifying these... Flags of the World Quiz: Undercover Edition Can you identify the country based on just a fraction of a flag? The Totally ’80s Quiz The major events and pop culture of the decade that brought you... Guess the Rotated U.S. State Quiz Practice your geographical skills with this twisted test. Dutch, Yiddish, Japanese, or Hindi? Quiz Guess the language these English words come from. Name That Animal! Quiz Vol. 3 Who’s who of the zoo crew? Who Did That? A Historical Bio Quiz How well do you know the histories of history’s biggest names? 13-Letter Word Quiz Thirteen words, thirteen letters each. It’s your lucky day. Challenging Words You Should Know Vocabulary Quiz Vol. 2 It isn’t linguistic hubris if you can back it up. Guess the Movie: Emoji Quiz 2 There are no small roles, only small icons. The Olympics Quiz Go for the gold by testing your knowledge of the Games. What Very Big Thing Happened on This Day? Are you up to date on your famous historical dates? Curious Origins of Everyday Words Quiz Oh, that’s where that comes from… 12-Letter Words Quiz A dozen words, a dozen letters each. That Swinging ’60s Quiz If bell-bottoms and Beatlemania are your bag, this is the quiz... Name That U.S. State Quiz This quiz is all over the map. Former Names of Current Places Quiz What is New Amsterdam called today? Name That World Flag! Our salute to flags from around the world. Can you name the countries... Are You An Idiom Savant? Quiz Figure out what these figures of speech actually mean. Odd Word Out: Synonyms Quiz Figure out which word isn't like the others. Guess the Movie: Emoji Quiz It’s the pictures that got small. Commonly Misspelled Words Vol. 2 Quiz Where are those red squiggly underlines when you need them? Sound Check: Musical Vocabulary Quiz See how well you know the score. Guess the Literary Illustration Quiz We show you the art, you guess the literary work. Get the picture? A Visit with the Word Doctor: Medical Vocabulary Quiz Give your vocabulary a checkup. Another Great British Vocabulary Quiz, Innit? A double-decker quiz with words from across the pond. Name That Dish! Quiz Some mouthwatering food for thought. Name That Dessert! Quiz Hope you’ve saved room for some sweet vocabulary. Odd Jobs Vocabulary Quiz Work smarter, not harder, to figure out these occupations. American Sign Language Alphabet Quiz Test your knowledge of the American Sign Language alphabet Spot the Canadian Quiz Given a group of four famous people, can you figure out which... Commonly Misspelled Words Quiz Autocorrect can’t save you now. Pop Culture Vocabulary Quiz Embiggen, regift, friend zone, and... Facts You Should Know: The Cold War Quiz In Soviet Russia, quiz takes YOU Which Came First? Vocabulary Quiz Vol. 2 Tighty-whities or loosey-goosey? Given a pair... Name That Yoga Pose Quiz Stretch out your brain by naming these mind-bending positions All Quiz Categories Entertainment & Pop Culture Geography & Travel Health & Medicine Lifestyles & Social Issues Literature Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Science Sports & Recreation Technology Visual Arts World History Image & Picture Quizzes Vocabulary Quizzes History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
