URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Visual-Arts
Title: Visual Arts Portal | Britannica
H1: Visual Arts
H2: Featured content, May 02, 2025 Visual Arts Quizzes Visual Arts Videos Visual Arts Subcategories
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Visual Arts Visual Arts These are the arts that meet the eye and evoke an emotion through an expression of skill and imagination. They include the most ancient forms, such as painting and drawing, and the arts that were born thanks to the development of technology, like sculpture, printmaking, photography, and installation art. Though beauty is in the eye of the beholder, different eras in art history have had their own principles to define beauty, from the richly ornamented taste of the Baroque to the simple utilitarian style of the Prairie School. Browse Subcategories Architecture Arts Awards Decorative Art Fashion & Personal Adornment Graphic Art Installation & Performance Art Painting Photography Sculpture Featured content, May 02, 2025 5 More Paintings to See at the National Galleries of Scotland in Edinburgh Learn before you look. 11 or 12 Things Remembered Well About the Chelsea Hotel A who’s who of an infamous inn. What’s the Difference Between Modern and Contemporary Art? Is that odd installation piece that rains on you when you get near it modern or contemporary art? Here are some tips on how... Street Photography: How a Single Camera Brought About a Genre The invention of the Leica camera allowed photographers to move through the streets and capture moments that come and go... history of photography History of photography, method of recording the image of an object through the action of light, or related radiation, on... Wassily Kandinsky Wassily Kandinsky was a Russian-born artist, one of the first creators of pure abstraction in modern painting. After successful... Mesopotamian art and architecture Mesopotamian art and architecture, the art and architecture of the ancient Mesopotamian civilizations. The name Mesopotamia... naïve art Naïve art, work of artists in sophisticated societies who lack or reject conventional expertise in the representation or... Visual Arts Quizzes Artists & Painters: Fact or Fiction? Do you think you know Fabergé, Monet, and Jackson Pollock? Discover how much you really know about their lives, inspirations,... Ultimate Art Quiz From symbolism to sculpture, this quiz will put you in touch with your artistic side. Artists, Painters, & Architects Who picked up a paintbrush, chisel, or piece of clay to create the world’s most famous works of art? Draw on your knowledge... Art & Architecture: Fact or Fiction? What purpose do gargoyles serve? What is gesso used for? Sort fact from fiction in art and architecture. Paris at Random What ballet caused an opening night riot in Paris? Which Parisian singer popularized the chanson? Test your knowledge about... Mythology, Legend, and Folklore According to American folklore, who dug out the Grand Canyon? From Egyptian gods to Norse heroes, dig out the facts in this... Greek Mythology and Legend: Fact or Fiction? In the legends concerning the Trojan War, were the Greek gods neutral? Sort through the facts of winged and wooden horses... Dance From the graceful movements of ballet to the flapping frenzy of the Charleston, tap your feet—and scratch your head—in this... This or That? Painter vs. Architect Think you know your artists? Try to remember if these famous names were painters or architects. Ballet: Fact or Fiction? What is a pirouette? Where does ballet terminology come from? Test your knowledge with this quiz. Visual Arts Videos Discover how Bertrand Goldberg with the Marina City design intended to revitalize the urban city Filippo Brunelleschi's contribution to architecture What makes the Birth of Venus so beautiful? See Carrie Mae Weems discussing The Kitchen Table Series Coco Chanel: From quiet luxury to Nazi affiliation Behold the Gothic-style House of Lords and the House of Commons constituting the Houses of Parliament Chinese sculpture during the Han dynasty examined Explore the legacy of postmodern architecture Know about the design-build competition for the Harold Washington Library Center aiming at low cost and quick completion Learn how pollution from industrialization in Europe damaged the limestone of Cologne Cathedral Image Gallery Visual Arts View Gallery Never Miss a Day in History Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers delivered right to your inbox. Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Visual Arts Subcategories Architecture Architecture is a sphere of art and design in which functionality and aesthetics can combine to produce visually stunning structures that manage to both catch the eye and serve a functional purpose. The expansive variety of architectural styles that have been employed throughout the ages underscores the fact that not every building need look the same, a principle that is readily apparent when comparing Gothic cathedrals with igloos or pagodas with cliff dwellings. Although architecture is commonly associated first and foremost with the design and construction of buildings, landscape architects may work with gardens, parks, and other planned outdoor areas, aiding in the development and decorative planning of such spaces. Articles Kazuyo Sejima and Ryue Nishizawa Japanese architects Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown American architects Egyptian art and architecture ancient Egypt Arts Awards Awards such as the Praemium Imperiale and the Pritzker Prize honor artists for a job well done. Articles Bollingen Prize American literature prize Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize Turner Prize British arts award Decorative Art People appreciate the usefulness of things like glassware and furniture, but they appreciate such objects even more when they’re aesthetically pleasing, too. That’s where decorative art comes in. Explore the world of basketry, metalwork, pottery, interior design, tapestry, and more. Articles stagecraft theater Charles Eames and Ray Eames American designers enamelwork art Fashion & Personal Adornment Looking to make a statement without ever saying a word? Fashion designers know that clothing and accessories can speak volumes about the wearer, affecting both how the wearer is perceived by others and how the wearer perceives of him- or herself. The fashion industry has become a multibillion-dollar global enterprise devoted to the business of making and selling clothes; it thrives by being diverse and flexible enough to gratify any consumer's desire to embrace or reject fashionability, however that term might be defined. Articles dress clothing inro clothing accessory Coco Chanel French designer Graphic Art Calligraphy, graffiti, engraving, caricature: graphic art's domain stretches as far as the eye can see. Take a look at some of the other types of graphic art, and learn more about the artists working within this category of fine arts. Articles William Blake British writer and artist photoengraving printing printmaking Installation & Performance Art audience" could consist of onlookers on the street or patrons browsing the halls of a museum, among countless other possibilities. Articles James Turrell American artist Ai Weiwei Chinese activist and artist Apichatpong Weerasethakul Thai film director Painting Need help distinguishing your Picassos from your Monets? Learn about history’s celebrated painters and the different styles, techniques, mediums, and forms that have been used to create such unique visual images as Salvador Dalí’s melting clock and the ever-shifting eyes of Leonardo da Vinci’s enigmatic Mona Lisa. Articles oil painting Bohemian school visual arts Expressionism artistic style Photography Photography’s history began long before we were snapping pictures on camera phones. Learn about the masters of the craft and explore the development of photographic technology as it progressed through daguerreotypes and tintypes on the way to modern day’s increasingly sophisticated digital cameras. Articles technology of photography Claude Cahun French writer, photographer, Surrealist, and performance... Lee Miller American photographer, artist, and model Sculpture Looking to find a use for that extra clay, stone, plaster, or metal that you have lying around? Consider sculpture, in which artists employ these materials and others to create three-dimensional art. Perhaps you’ll join the ranks of noted sculptors such as Michelangelo, Auguste Rodin, and Donatello. Articles Constantin Brancusi Romanian-French sculptor Donatello Italian sculptor Joseph Cornell American sculptor and filmmaker Home Visual Arts History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
