URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Science
Title: Science Portal | Britannica
H1: Science
H2: Featured content, May 02, 2025 Science Quizzes Science Videos Science Subcategories
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Science Science How can the sky be blue one day and stormy the next? Why do heavy objects tend to fall downwards when dropped? How are birds able to fly (and why can’t I do the same?)? Human beings have long been curious about the world in which we live, striving to identify connections among the phenomenons we witness and to understand how it all works. The field of science has developed over many centuries as a way of studying and understanding the world, beginning with the primitive stage of simply noting important regularities in nature and continuing through the rise of modern science. The modern-day sciences cover a vast range of fields, including biology, chemistry, meteorology, astronomy, physics, and much more. Browse Subcategories Astronomy Biology Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Chemistry Earth Science, Geologic Time & Fossils Environment Mammals Mathematics Plants Physics Featured content, May 02, 2025 What Purposes Do Mosquitoes Serve in Ecosystems? Mosquitoes are important pollinators and a major food source for fishes and birds. 10 Deadly Animals that Fit in a Breadbox Tiny terrors of the animal kingdom. Is a Tomato a Fruit or a Vegetable? One of your biggest culinary questions demystified Where Did the Moon Come From? Scientists still aren’t sure what made the Moon. Here are their best guesses. astronomy Astronomy, science that encompasses the study of all extraterrestrial objects and phenomena. Until the invention of the telescope... Scientific Revolution Scientific Revolution, drastic change in scientific thought that took place during the 16th and 17th centuries. A new view... analysis Analysis, a branch of mathematics that deals with continuous change and with certain general types of processes that have... principles of physical science Principles of physical science, the procedures and concepts employed by those who study the inorganic world. Physical science,... Science Quizzes How Much Do You Know About Physics? From cathode-ray tubes to quantum states, this quiz will test what you know about physics. Quick Quiz: Glaciers Glaciers are large masses of ice. This is a miniscule three-question quiz. Find out, quickly, how much you know about glaciers. Rocks, Minerals, and More Quiz What mineral forms stalactites and stalagmites in underground caves? What puts the green in emeralds and the red in rubies?... Oceanography Quiz There is much to study in Earth’s oceans and seas, from their chemical properties to the living things that populate them.... Know Your Fish Quiz Which fish is known as a living fossil? What is the name for the scientific study of fish? Test your knowledge. Take this... Genetics Quiz Who deduced that the sex of an individual is determined by a particular chromosome? How many pairs of chromosomes are found... Know Your Bugs Quiz Which of these insects includes a “slave-maker” that bites the head off the resident queen? Which beetle is also known as... All About Reptiles and Amphibians Quiz Snakes and turtles and frogs, oh my! Some people find these creatures to be a little scary, but you don’t have to fear this... Science at Random Quiz Which kingdom do mushrooms belong to? What dinosaur was a chicken-size predator? Test your knowledge of everything in science... All About Math Quiz Your algebra teacher was right. You will use math after graduation—for this quiz! See what you remember from school, and... Science Videos Survival of Japanese cranes in Kushiro Shitsugen National Park Explore Uranus's nightside and ring system in this computer animation of the Voyager 2 space probe passing the planet on its way out of the solar system Learn about the dark side of the Moon Inside the body: From radioactive tracers to fluorescent proteins Struggles of jackals and meerkats in Namibia Listen to Dr. Gavin Schmidt discussing the role of climate modeling at NASA catnip's effect on cat behavior The process of photosynthesis in plants explained Learn how non-mobile male and female corals reproduce by releasing gametes that form planulae Understand the sexual and asexual reproduction from the bramble and the daffodil plant Image Gallery Science View Gallery Never Miss a Day in History Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers delivered right to your inbox. Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Science Subcategories Astronomy Human beings have long been fascinated by the celestial sphere above, whose twinkling lights have inspired not only scientific theories but also many artistic endeavors. Humankind's fascination with the world beyond Earth has led to many landmark moments in history, as when space exploration took a giant step forward with the advent of technology that allowed humans to successfully travel to the Moon and to build spacecraft capable of exploring the rest of the solar system and beyond. Articles John Glenn American astronaut and United States senator Michael Collins American astronaut astronomy Biology How do plants feed themselves? How did dogs evolve from wolves? What good is the appendix in humans, anyway? Such questions fall within the domain of biology, which seeks to understand living organisms and their vital processes (although the jury’s still out on what our appendixes are for). Biology’s diverse fields include botany, ecology, evolution, genetics, medicine, physiology, and zoology. Articles animal organism life biology microbiology Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Although it can be hard to imagine that a peacock and a crocodile have much of anything in common, these animals are actually descendants of the same prehistoric vertebrates. Birds are thought to have descended from carnivorous dinosaurs that began growing feathers by the Late Jurassic Period; thus, birds are technically one lineage of reptiles. This evolutionary link highlights the way in which seemingly incongruous creatures can, in fact, share a common ancestor (though that doesn't mean that we should expect waterfowl and crocodiles to become friends anytime soon). Articles snake reptile reptile animal dinosaur fossil reptile Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Yet, in addition to being critically important—because they naturally recycle decaying matter—in maintaining balance within the food chain, bugs can also be fascinating creatures, whether in regard to the water strider's ability to run across the surface of water or the assassin bugs' varied and creative means of catching and killing their prey. Mollusks, another group of invertebrates, get less of a bad rap. Their ranks include nearly 100,000 described species of soft-bodied animals that are usually wholly or partly enclosed in a calcium carbonate shell; examples include snails, clams, oysters, squids, and octopuses. Articles nematode animal giant squid mollusk butterfly insect Chemistry How do you use raw plant materials to manufacture a best-selling perfume? How do you engineer household products that are compliant with environmentally-oriented guidelines? The answers to these questions require an understanding of the laws of chemistry, the science that deals with the properties, composition, and structure of elements and compounds, as well as the transformations that such substances undergo and the energy that is released or absorbed during those processes. Chemistry is also concerned with the utilization of natural substances and the creation of artificial ones. Over time, more than 8,000,000 different chemical substances, both natural and artificial, have been characterized and produced. Chemistry's vast scope comprises organic, inorganic, physical, analytical, and industrial chemistry, along with biochemistry, environmental chemistry, medicinal chemistry, and much more. Through the dedicated efforts of people such as Robert Boyle, Dmitri Mendeleev, John Dalton, Marie Curie, and Rosalind Franklin, the field of chemistry has led to exciting innovations as well as crucial advances in our understanding of how the world functions, starting with the miniscule and unassuming atom. Articles chemical element biochemistry science principles of physical science Earth Science, Geologic Time & Fossils Planet Earth has billions of years of history, from the time when it was an inhospitable ball of hot magma to when its surface stabilized into a variety of diverse zones capable of supporting many life-forms. Many are the species that lived through the various geologic eras and left a trace of their existence in the fossils that we study today. But Earth is never done settling, as we can see from the earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, and other phenomena manifested in Earth’s crust, oceans, and atmosphere. Articles tsunami water wave Earth planet Batodonoides fossil mammal genus Environment Biological diversity is key to a healthy ecosystem, whether it’s a small biological community or the global biosphere. Ecology, which studies the relationships between organisms and their environment, is an invaluable science that helps us understand what allows an ecological community to thrive. Articles conservation ecology Environmental Protection Agency United States government agency hydrosphere Earth science Mammals Mammals are distinguished by their ability to produce milk. The class Mammalia boasts tremendous diversity in form and habit, and different types of mammals can be wildly different from one another in physical appearance. Living kinds of mammals range in size from a bat weighing less than a gram to the largest animal that has ever lived, the blue whale, which reaches a length or more than 30 metres (100 feet) and a weight of 180 metric tons (nearly 200 short [U.S.] tons). Articles platypus monotreme whale mammal porcupine rodent Mathematics Mathematics is a science of structure, order, and relation that deals with logical reasoning and quantitative calculation. The history of mathematics can be traced back to ancient Mesopotamia; ancient clay tablets have proven that the level of mathematical competence was already high as early as roughly the 18th century BCE. Over the centuries, mathematics has evolved from elemental practices of counting, measuring, and describing the shapes of objects into a crucial adjunct to the physical sciences and technology. Articles fractal mathematics geometry mathematics Blaise Pascal French philosopher and scientist Plants Life on Earth owes much to plants. The vast majority of plants carry out photosynthesis to transform light energy into chemical energy, which is the way that virtually all energy in the biosphere becomes available to living things (including us humans). Plants occupy the base of Earth's food webs and are consumed directly or indirectly by all higher life-forms, thereby functioning as the major source of food for humans and other animals. Plants' photosynthetic activity also produces the air that we breathe: almost all the oxygen in the atmosphere is due to the process of photosynthesis. Still not convinced about the merits of plants? Consider the fact that many plants not only serve up crucial nutrients and breathable air but also look good doing it. Many plants are admired for their striking aesthetic qualities, and flowers such as tulips, lilies, sunflowers, and daisies beautify fields, gardens, windowsills, and bouquets the world over. Plants are also a primary source of consumer goods, such as building materials, textile fibers, and pharmaceuticals. Articles Rafflesiaceae plant family rose plant cereus cactus genus Physics What’s the matter? Matter is the material substance that constitutes our whole observable universe, and it is the subject of study of physics. Physics, the basic physical science, studies objects ranging from the very small (using quantum mechanics) to the entire universe (using general relativity). It deals with the structure of matter and how the fundamental constituents of the universe interact. Articles quantum mechanics physics scanning tunneling microscope instrument biophysics science Home Science History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
