URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Sports-Recreation
Title: Sports & Recreation Portal | Britannica
H1: Sports & Recreation
H2: Featured content, May 02, 2025 Sports & Recreation Quizzes Sports & Recreation Videos Sports & Recreation Subcategories
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Sports & Recreation Sports & Recreation Physical contests and recreational games have long played a part in human society. In both team and solo sports, the human body has been pushed to its limits in the name of improving athletic performance and in order to break record upon record. The ancient Olympic Games are an early example of the contests in which humans have engaged to showcase physical prowess. In modern times, sports and games have evolved into a lucrative and competitive industry, while other leisure activities, such as card and video games, can be competitive or just serve as a way to unwind or socialize. Browse Subcategories Football Baseball Basketball Hockey Soccer Cricket Olympic Sports Games, Hobbies & Recreational Activities Other Sports Featured content, May 02, 2025 10 Greatest Baseball Players of All Time Check out the best baseballers ever! Olympics: A Survey of Banned Substances Learn about the major groups of substances on the World Anti-Doping Agency’s Prohibited List. Why Do Tennis Players Wear White at Wimbledon? Players at the prestigious Wimbledon Championships always wear white clothing. Why is that? Exploring 10 Types of Basketball Movies If you’ve seen one basketball movie, you’ve seen ’em all, right? There’s a little more to it than that. You’ll see. poker Poker, card game, played in various forms throughout the world, in which a player must call (i.e., match) the bet, raise... boxing Boxing, sport, both amateur and professional, involving attack and defense with the fists. Boxers usually wear padded gloves... chess Chess, one of the oldest and most popular board games, played by two opponents on a checkered board with specially designed... snowboarding Snowboarding, winter sport with roots in skiing, surfing, and skateboarding where the primary activity is riding down any... Sports & Recreation Quizzes Cricket, Anyone? You may be familiar with the sports of baseball and American football, but how much do you really know about cricket? Take... Sports Season From basketball and skating to fencing and windsurfing, dust off your knowledge—and see how bright your trophy shines—in... Physical Education Scaling mountains tests one’s physical and mental endurance, but what is it called when a mountain climber stops a fall?... I Am the Greatest (Athlete) Think you know a lot about famous athletes? This quiz might get your GOAT. An Encyclopedia of Sports In the United States, what sport is known as "the national pastime?" Learn more about surfing, bullfighting, and ballgames... Sports Enthusiast From the world’s oldest sport to the Asian Games, test your knowledge of boxing, basketball, and more in this quiz. American Football: Fact or Fiction? You may be familiar with touchdown dances, but are there are several ways to score points in American football? Sort fact... Golf: Fact or Fiction? Does the winner of a golf match have the highest score? Test your knowledge in this quiz about golf. The Olympic Games: Fact or Fiction? Are only women allowed to compete in the heptathlon? Is the high jump a part of the decathlon? Jump over hurdles and through... Football (Soccer): Fact or Fiction? How much do you know about the world’s most popular sport? From the FIFA World Cup to the proper throw-in technique, take... Sports & Recreation Videos See the Fort Wayne Daisies and the Racine Belles train for the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League Discovering cricket: From the “Timeless Test” to T20 Learn about the rules of racewalking with a comparison with other sports How are sports chosen for the Olympics? Watch: A triple jump in track and field When is the Indy 500 not on TV in Indiana? Watch: A back dive Study the shot-put technique of a track-and-field athlete spinning and heaving a metal ball from the shoulder Exploring Majorca, Spain Image Gallery Sports & Recreation View Gallery Never Miss a Day in History Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers delivered right to your inbox. Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Sports & Recreation Subcategories Football Although baseball has traditionally been seen as America’s national pastime, gridiron football has made its own indelible impact on the American sports landscape. Decades of informal, student-organized collegiate games ultimately gave rise to a thriving college football scene and to the hugely popular professional version of the game. Despite early and continued concerns about the game’s violence, gridiron football eventually became the United States’ leading spectator sport, and it has achieved a degree of international popularity through television. Articles Tampa Bay Buccaneers American football team Minnesota Vikings American football team Kansas City Chiefs American football team Baseball Although the United States can be credited with developing several popular sports that were adopted internationally, it is baseball that Americans have traditionally recognized as the “national pastime.” Baseball’s early history was interwoven with and reflective of major social and cultural cleavages, but the sport also proved to possess great unifying power, as the experience of playing, watching, and talking about baseball became one of the nation’s great common denominators. Additionally, we have baseball to thank (or point fingers at) for the continued status of “Take Me Out to the Ballgame” as one of the best-known songs among Americans. Articles Mickey Mantle American baseball player Lou Gehrig American baseball player Mike Trout American baseball player Basketball Basketball, game played between two teams of five players each on a rectangular court, usually indoors. Each team tries to score by tossing the ball through the opponent’s goal, an elevated horizontal hoop and net called a basket. Articles Golden State Warriors American basketball team Kobe Bryant American basketball player Dennis Rodman American basketball player Hockey Ice hockey, game between two teams, each usually having six players, who wear skates and compete on an ice rink. The object is to propel a vulcanized rubber disk, the puck, past a goal line and into a net guarded by a goaltender, or goalie. With its speed and its frequent physical contact, ice hockey has become one of the most popular of international sports. Articles Boston Bruins American hockey team Jaromir Jagr Czech hockey player Stanley Cup ice hockey trophy Soccer Football, also called association football or soccer, game in which two teams of 11 players, using any part of their bodies except their hands and arms, try to maneuver the ball into the opposing team’s goal. Only the goalkeeper is permitted to handle the ball and may do so only within the penalty area surrounding the goal. The team that scores more goals wins. Articles Lionel Messi Argentine-born football player football soccer Manchester United English football club Cricket Cricket, England’s national summer sport, is played throughout the world, particularly in Australia, India, Pakistan, the West Indies, and the British Isles. The advent of Twenty20 cricket and the wild success of the Indian Premier League in the first decade of the 21st century led to a period of great innovation in the game. Articles Sunil Gavaskar Indian cricket player Virat Kohli Indian cricketer cricket sport Olympic Sports Olympic Games, athletic festival that originated in ancient Greece and was revived in the late 19th century. Before the 1970s the Games were officially limited to competitors with amateur status, but in the 1980s many events were opened to professional athletes. Currently, the Games are open to all, even the top professional athletes in basketball and football (soccer). Articles swimming sport and recreation Torvill and Dean English figure skaters Michael Phelps American swimmer Games, Hobbies & Recreational Activities This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles coin collecting gardening art and science number game Other Sports This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles Twenty20 cricket sport Danica Patrick American race car driver extreme sports Home Sports & Recreation History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
