URL: https://britannica.com/money/jobless-claims-jolts-report
Title: Jobless Claims and the JOLTS Report | Britannica Money
H1: Jobless claims and JOLTS: Piecing together the job market jigsaw
H2: Key Points Initial jobless claims Fiscal and monetary policy Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) Are there other reports I can look at to get a glimpse into the labor market? The bottom line References
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Written by Fact-checked by initial jobless claims report Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) What it is. Who publishes it and when. How you might interpret it. What it can tell you that the jobs report can’t. Caveats. What it is. Who publishes it and when. How you might interpret it. What it can tell you that the jobs report can’t. Caveats. Automatic Data Processing
Body: History & SocietyScience & TechBiographiesAnimals & NatureGeography & TravelArts & CultureProConGames & QuizzesVideosOn This DayOne Good FactDictionary Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Health & Medicine Science Technology Browse Biographies Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual ArtsCompanionsDemystifiedImage GalleriesInfographicsListsPodcastsSpotlightSummariesTop Questions#WTFactBritannica Kids Household Finance Investing Trading Retirement Companies Biographies Finance & the Economy Table of Contents Introduction Initial jobless claims Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) Are there other reports I can look at to get a glimpse into the labor market? The bottom line References Read More What housing market data can indicate about the broader economy Economic cycles: Investing through boom and bust Consumer spending: Here are the top reports to follow Table Of Contents Investing Economic Data Jobless claims and JOLTS: Piecing together the job market jigsaw The puzzling job of analyzing jobs. Print Cite Share Written byKarl Montevirgen Karl Montevirgen Karl Montevirgen is a professional freelance writer who specializes in the fields of finance, cryptomarkets, content strategy, and the arts. Karl works with several organizations in the equities, futures, physical metals, and blockchain industries. He holds FINRA Series 3 and Series 34 licenses in addition to a dual MFA in critical studies/writing and music composition from the California Institute of the Arts. Fact-checked byDoug Ashburn Doug Ashburn Doug is a Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst who spent more than 20 years as a derivatives market maker and asset manager before “reincarnating” as a financial media professional a decade ago. Updated: May 01, 2025 Table of Contents Introduction Initial jobless claims Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) Are there other reports I can look at to get a glimpse into the labor market? The bottom line References Read More What housing market data can indicate about the broader economy Economic cycles: Investing through boom and bust Consumer spending: Here are the top reports to follow Table Of Contents Open full sized image Two views on the labor market. © Prostock-studio/stock.adobe.com, © Andriy Blokhin/stock.adobe.com; Photo composite Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. News • The number of Americans filing for jobless claims jumps last week, but remains at healthy levels • May 1, 2025, 8:50 AM ET(AP) Labor fuels the engines of economic production, and that’s precisely why the monthly Employment Situation Summary (aka the monthly jobs report) commands so much attention from investors and economists alike. In addition to serving as a barometer for the economy, it’s also one of the first major economic reports of the month, and typically sets the tone for all the others that follow. The jobs report gives you a comprehensive overview of job creation, unemployment rates, and wages in almost every sector of the economy (except for farming). In this way, it sort of reigns supreme as far as labor reports go. But it isn’t the only player on the field. There are others that can give you a more nuanced and timely reading, perhaps enough to show you the forces that eventually lead up to the big jobs report. We’re talking about the initial jobless claims report and the Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS). Key Points The weekly jobless claims report shows the number of new and continuing claims for unemployment benefits. The Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) is a deeper dive into current labor demand. These and other labor reports and surveys can help you more fully understand the data from the monthly jobs report. As an investor, you’re probably asking what these reports can provide that the jobs report can’t. By providing insights into the labor market from different angles, both can give you more timely and granular insights into the dynamics that ultimately shape the big picture (jobs report) reported on the first Friday of every month. Initial jobless claims What it is. Initial jobless claims is a weekly report that tells you the number of people who have lost their jobs in the previous week and are seeking unemployment benefits. It includes two sets of unemployment benefits seekers: initial claims, meaning people who lost their jobs and are filing for the first time, and continued claims, or those who are already receiving unemployment benefits and are continuing to file to receive them. Who publishes it and when. The initial jobless claims report is published by the U.S. Department of Labor and is released every Thursday at 8:30 a.m. ET. How you might interpret it. By watching the overall trend in job losses over several weeks, you can form an opinion as to whether the labor market is strengthening or weakening. A trend in increasing numbers can signal a downturn in the nation’s labor market, while a decreasing number might indicate stability and growth. Still, you have to take these numbers in context. When inflation is rising, decreasing numbers (indicating higher employment) can mean that the economy isn’t slowing enough to bring down prices—not a good sign for an overheating economy. So, although job growth is generally a good thing—as labor fuels economic production—it isn’t great news when, for example, the Federal Reserve is deliberately trying to slow down production and spending by raising interest rates, typically in response to higher inflation. Sometimes the stock market will respond in volatile fashion to these numbers if it’s not what Wall Street expected to see. Fiscal and monetary policy Policymakers use two levers—one on the spending side and one on the money flow side—to stabilize the economy. Here’s how fiscal and monetary policy work—or should work, anyway. What it can tell you that the jobs report can’t. The initial jobless claims report is the closest to real time you can get when following labor trends. You can see the conditions leading up to (and following) the job report’s monthly unemployment rate. As an investor, you might be able to anticipate (or just avoid being taken by surprise by) the big jobs data reveal each month, giving you a slight edge if your market decisions are based on the nation’s employment. Caveats. Although the report is frequent (once a week), this means it can also be volatile and affected by seasonal factors. A big increase or decrease in one week may seem significant (and the markets may react strongly, up or down), but one week doesn’t make a trend. Unless you step back and look at the big picture, you might be misled by a single week’s report. Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS) What it is. JOLTS is short for Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey. And as the name says, it reports on the number of job openings, hires, and separations (including those who quit and those who are fired) from the labor market (again, farm jobs aren’t counted). Who publishes it and when. JOLTS is published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) and is typically released a month after the jobs report referencing the same period (this means there’s a lag). How you might interpret it. JOLTS can tell you a lot about labor demand because it’s the only major report that provides job openings data. A large number of job openings can mean the labor market is “tight,” while a small or decreasing number indicates the labor market is “soft” or softening. In a tight market, companies are looking to hire more workers, indicating that the economy is growing. The opposite is true of a soft market. Again, tight or soft, it depends on the broader context. In an overheating economy, a tight labor market isn’t necessarily a preferable thing, as more production and consumption can exert upward pressure on the cost of goods and services. Conversely, higher job openings is something Wall Street will want to see if the economy is recovering from a recession. What it can tell you that the jobs report can’t. JOLTS highlights the number of job openings, and it’s broken down by industry. It also provides a granular picture of hires, but it separates “quits” (those who voluntarily leave their jobs) and separations (which combines quits, layoffs, and terminations). During the post-COVID-19 recovery, when inflation began to rise, the number of openings and quits—both exceedingly high—told us something very important about the labor market and economy: Many people were willing to quit their jobs to demand higher wages and better working conditions. This was dubbed “The Great Resignation,” and the tightness in the labor market threatened to turn up the heat on inflation. Many economists feared a wage-price spiral (meaning, higher wages can cause businesses to raise their prices, which, in turn, increases demand for even higher wages). JOLTS can provide a nuanced and dynamic look at demand for labor—something the jobs report can’t do quite as well. Caveats. JOLTS has a one-month lag; it reports on the same period that the Employment Situation Summary described a month earlier. JOLTS is still incredibly useful, but depending on the labor market dynamics, it can be late. Also, the jobs report also provides a breakdown of employment by industry, demographics, and other categories not included in JOLTS. Are there other reports I can look at to get a glimpse into the labor market? Yes. There are job reports published by private entities. For example, the ADP National Employment Report, released by Automatic Data Processing (ADP), is a monthly report that, like the jobs report, can give you another angle to analyze the nation’s labor market. If you’re not already familiar with economic data generated by private companies, they’re well worth a look, especially if you seek a second opinion or just a different take from Uncle Sam’s economic assessment. The bottom line The Employment Situation Summary gives you a comprehensive snapshot of the labor market; the initial jobless claims report and JOLTS offer additional, nuanced perspectives. Plus, each report can bring a few things to the table that the big jobs report can’t. Together, they equip you with a richer picture, empowering you to make better decisions when investing. References JOLTS Home: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics | bls.gov Initial Claims in California (CAICLAIMS) | fred.stlouisfed.org Employment and Unemployment | dol.gov Employment Situation Summary | bls.gov ADP National Employment Report | adpemploymentreport.com About UsPrivacy PolicyTerms & Conditions © 2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
