URL: https://britannica.com/stories/spotlight
Title: Spotlight | Britannica
H1: Spotlight
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Spotlight Entertainment & Pop CultureGeography & TravelHealth & MedicineLifestyles & Social IssuesLiteraturePhilosophy & ReligionPolitics, Law & GovernmentScienceSports & RecreationTechnologyVisual ArtsWorld History Estimated Battle Casualties During the Normandy Invasion and Campaign to Liberate Paris (June–August 1944) The exact number of casualties suffered in the Normandy Invasion,... Olympics: Football (Soccer) The women’s and men’s gold medal matches at the Tokyo Games are... The Legacy of Order 9066 and Japanese American Internment On Feb. 19, 1942, President Roosevelt signed Executive Order... Pro and Con: Medical Aid in Dying Some believe legalizing medical aid in dying (MAID) is needed... The New Space Race In the first decades of the 21st century, a new space race emerged... Capability Brown at 300 Who was this oddly named man, and why should you care? Timeline of the 2000s Do you remember what happened in the aughts? Presidential Debate Bingo Learn about the people and topics likely to come up in upcoming... Spotting a Supercontinent: How Pangea Was Discovered In the early 20th century, a scientist proposed the existence... 4 Questions for Tennis Star Naomi Osaka Family shaped who Naomi Osaka is today. The Hindenburg, Before and After Disaster On May 6, 1937, the Hindenburg, a Can You Guess the Movie by the Scene? Grab a bowl of popcorn and see how many movies you can name. A Timeline of Environmental History A glimpse of some of our environmental successes and failures. LGBTQ Pride Month Is Here The rainbow flag celebrates the beauty in diversity. Celebrating LGBTQ Pride The month of June marks the annual celebration of lesbian, gay,... Timeline of the Manhattan Project What led to the creation of the atomic bomb? The Controversy over Female Genital Cutting A look at the practice of female genital cutting and the controversy... Britannica’s Flower Bingo Test your knowledge of garden flowers! The Evergreen Benefits of Rooftop Gardening Looking for some peas and quiet in your busy metropolis? Nothing... Timeline of the 1970s Do you remember what happened in the seventies? Pro and Con: Net Neutrality in the United States Net neutrality is a complex and evolving issue in the U.S., with... The Solar Eclipse That Made Albert Einstein a Science Celebrity How an eclipse tested the theory of general relativity. Trigger Warnings on Campus Students have been requesting more trigger warnings in college... Timeline of the 1990s Do you remember what happened in the nineties? History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
