URL: https://britannica.com/stories/demystified
Title: Demystified | Britannica
H1: Demystified
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Demystified Entertainment & Pop CultureGeography & TravelHealth & MedicineLifestyles & Social IssuesLiteraturePhilosophy & ReligionPolitics, Law & GovernmentScienceSports & RecreationTechnologyVisual ArtsWorld History Who Invented the Internet? Spoiler: It was definitely not Al Gore. Who Was the First Person to Survive Niagara Falls in a Barrel? Who Was the First Woman to Run for President of the United States? Before women could vote, Victoria Woodhull ran for U.S. president. Who Votes for the Academy Awards? Find out who is in the exclusive Hollywood institution that presents... Why Is Marijuana Illegal in the U.S.? Get the 411 on why 420 was outlawed in the U.S. What’s the Difference Between Cane Sugar and Beet Sugar? Sugar is sugar, right? Is Body Language Universal? A thumbs-up in Japan doesn’t communicate the same message that... What’s a Hoosier? Learn why people from Indiana are called Hoosiers. Why Is Elvis Called “the King of Rock ’n’ Roll”? Discover how the renowned singer and performer earned the title... Was Napoleon Short? Find out if the most-known aspect of Napoleon’s legacy is really... Was Bloody Mary a Real Person? What does a Roman Catholic queen have in common with a cocktail... Was Johnny Appleseed a Real Person? Johnny Appleseed is an American folk hero. But is he just a legend... Do Lie Detectors Actually Work? Are they catching liars or something else? Do Camels Store Water in Their Humps? Do camels really come with built-in canteens? Why Do Some People Call Football “Soccer”? You play it with your feet, right? What’s the Difference Between Sweet Potatoes and Yams? What’s that you’re eating? Did Marie-Antoinette Really Say “Let Them Eat Cake”? Party like it’s 1789 What Happened to the Megalodon? Megalodon (Carcharocles megalodon) was once the scourge... Ghost Forests Are Becoming the New Haunts of Climate Change What are ghost forests? How do ghost forests emerge, and how... Why Is the Mona Lisa So Famous? The reason for the Mona Lisa’s popularity is one of... Is It ISIS or ISIL? From ISIS to ISIL to Daesh, who gets the name right? Are the Middle East and the Near East the Same Thing? Don’t let the terminology distract you from this important part... What’s the Difference Between Hispanic and Latino? Is there a difference? What’s the Difference Between Alligators and Crocodiles? Something to ponder by the pond History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
