URL: https://britannica.com/art/Maypole-dance
Title: Maypole dance | Ritual, Folklore & Tradition | Britannica
H1: Maypole dance
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Maypole dance
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Maypole dance Table of Contents Introduction References & Edit History Related Topics Images & Videos Read Next What Is Cultural Appropriation? 6 Classical Dances of India Discover All 81 References in Fall Out Boy’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained 9 Questions About the Vietnam War Answered 5 Unbelievable Facts About Christopher Columbus Is Australia an Island? All 119 References in “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained 7 Deadliest Weapons in History Why Is the Mona Lisa So Famous? Contents Entertainment & Pop Culture Dance Maypole dance Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/art/Maypole-dance Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites English Folk Dance and Song Society - An Introduction to Maypole Dances Learn Religion - A Brief History of the Maypole Dance Ask the Chatbot a Question Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Related Topics: folk dance (Show more) See all related content Celebrate the summer solstice with the Swedes in the Scandinavian Midsommar holiday maypole traditionSwedish midsummer festival.(more)See all videos for this article Maypole danceTraditional Maypole dance from England, with circle formation of dancers interweaving; detail from a 19th-century drawing.(more) Maypole dance, ceremonial folk dance performed around a tall pole garlanded with greenery or flowers and often hung with ribbons that are woven into complex patterns by the dancers. Such dances are survivals of ancient dances around a living tree as part of spring rites to ensure fertility. Typically performed on May Day (May 1), they also occur at midsummer in Scandinavia and at other festivals elsewhere. They are widely distributed through Europe—e.g., “Sellenger’s Round” in England, the baile del cordón of Spain—and also are found in India. Similar ribbon dances were performed in pre-Columbian Latin America and were later integrated into ritual dances of Hispanic origin. Maypoles may also appear in other ritual dances, as in the Basque ezpata dantza, or sword dance.
