URL: https://britannica.com/topic/Beltane
Title: Beltane | Definition, Meaning, Traditions, & Facts | Britannica
H1: Beltane
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Beltane
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Beltane Table of Contents Introduction References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Read Next What’s the Difference Between Great Britain and the United Kingdom? What Is the Most Widely Practiced Religion in the World? 14 Buildings That Lay Bare Scotland’s Soul Ireland’s Same-Sex Marriage Referendum Why Is Ireland Two Countries? Discover Where Is “Old Zealand”? Did Duchess Anastasia Survive Her Family’s Execution? Timeline of the American Civil Rights Movement What Comes After Terabyte? All 119 References in “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained All 81 References in Fall Out Boy’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained Is Australia an Island? Contents Philosophy & Religion Ancient Religions & Mythology Beltane ancient Celtic festival Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/topic/Beltane Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Ancient Origins - Beltane: Celtic Fire Festival Beckons with the Warmth of Summer Learn Religions - Beltane Rites and Rituals Official SIte of the Beltane Fire Society BBC - May Queen and Green Man - What is the Beltane Fire Festival? Ask the Chatbot a Question Also known as: Bel’s-Fire, Belltaine, Beltaine, Beltine, Cétamain, Cetsamain Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Also spelled: Beltine (Show more) Irish: Beltaine or Belltaine (Show more) Also known as: Cétamain (Show more) Related Topics: Ireland Scotland Celtic religion Wicca Celt (Show more) See all related content Beltane, festival held on the first day of May in Ireland and Scotland, celebrating the beginning of summer and open pasturing. Beltane is first mentioned in a glossary attributed to Cormac, bishop of Cashel and king of Munster, who was killed in 908. Cormac describes how cattle were driven between two bonfires on Beltane as a magical means of protecting them from disease before they were led into summer pastures—a custom still observed in Ireland in the 19th century. Other festivities included Maypole dances and cutting of green boughs and flowers. In early Irish lore a number of significant events took place on Beltane, which long remained the focus of folk traditions and tales in Ireland, Scotland, and the Isle of Man. As did other pre-Christian Celtic peoples, the Irish divided the year into two main seasons. Winter and the beginning of the year fell on November 1 (Irish: Samain) and midyear and summer on May 1 (Irish: Beltaine). These two junctures were thought to be critical periods when the bounds between the human and supernatural worlds were temporarily erased; on May Eve witches and fairies roamed freely, and measures had to be taken against their enchantments. Cormac derives the word Beltaine from the name of a god Bel, or Bil, and the Old Irish word tene, “fire.” Despite linguistic difficulties, a number of 20th-century scholars have maintained modified versions of this etymology, linking the first element of the word with the Gaulish god Belenos (Irish: Belenus). The Editors of Encyclopaedia BritannicaThis article was most recently revised and updated by Adam Augustyn.
