URL: https://britannica.com/stories/companion
Title: Companion | Britannica
H1: Companion
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Companion Entertainment & Pop CultureGeography & TravelHealth & MedicineLifestyles & Social IssuesLiteraturePhilosophy & ReligionPolitics, Law & GovernmentScienceSports & RecreationTechnologyVisual ArtsWorld History An Interview with Jimmy Carter: Global Challenges to the United States in a New Millennium In a 2003 interview with Encyclopædia Britannica, Jimmy Carter... Have Any U.S. Presidents Decided Not to Run For a Second Term? Find out which American presidents have decided against running... How Did King George V Really Die? Sometimes the truth takes time to come out. The Perils of an Early Spring A brief discussion of how the trend toward an earlier onset of... What Was the Super Bowl’s First Blockbuster Commercial? Read the story behind Apple’s 1984 Macintosh reveal, the Super... What Is Cultural Appropriation? Cultural appropriation happens when members of a majority group... Why Is Missouri Called the Show Me State? Learn the stories behind this state nickname. Did Joseph McCarthy cause the Red Scare of the 1950s? Did Joseph McCarthy cause the Red Scare of the 1950s? How Was Instant Ramen Invented? After World War II, Japan suffered from widespread food shortages,... Who Killed Tupac Shakur? Who Killed Tupac Shakur? The Plot to Assassinate George Washington If an attempt to assassinate George Washington had not been foiled... Why Did the Soviet Union Collapse? There were many factors that led to the collapse of the Soviet... Why Are There So Few HBCU Medical Schools? The need for Black doctors is acute, but there are relatively... Saving Sharks in the 2020s Shark populations worldwide have been declining as a result of... How did Patrice Lumumba die? How Did the Massacre of St. Bartholomew’s Day Start? Beginning on August 24, 1572, the Massacre of St. Bartholomew’s... How Did Joseph McCarthy’s Anticommunist Rhetoric Impact the LGBTQ+ Community? How did Joseph McCarthy’s anticommunist rhetoric impact the LGBTQ+... Prominent HBCU Alumni What Do Kamala Harris, Spike Lee, and Jerry Rice Have in Common?... What Is Known (and Not Known) About Area 51 Area 51 has spawned more conspiracy theories than perhaps any... The 14th Dalai Lama: A Life in Pictures Learn about the man called the “Ocean of Wisdom.” What Were Contraband Camps? Finding freedom as a “contraband of war.” How Do Glowworms Glow? A variety of structures and a special chemical reaction give... What Are Some Notable Examples of Film Adaptations of Romeo and Juliet? Find out more about what makes these film adaptations of Romeo... Why Was the Black Panther Film So Popular? Find out why Black Panther (2018) became one of Marvel’s... History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
