URL: https://britannica.com/Biographies
Title: Biographies | Britannica
H1: Biographies
H2: Popular Editor's Picks Spotlight: Marie Curie Quizzes Videos Galleries Featured Categories
H3: Actors Philosophers Aviation Legends
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Biographies Rita Dove She is an American poet who was the first African American to serve as poet laureate of the United States. Eduardo Montes-Bradley © Abaca Press/Alamy Pope Francis He ushered in a new era of leadership for the Roman Catholic Church when he was elected pope in 2013. © Abaca Press/Alamy Popular Famous West Indians in Sports and Entertainment Claudia Sheinbaum How Bob Odenkirk Became Bob Odenkirk Who Is Hanukkah Harry? Editor's Picks Princess Diana: A Life in Pictures Remembering the life of “the People’s Princess.” America’s 5 Most Notorious Cold Cases (Including One You May Have Thought Was Already Solved) Who wants to play detective? Josephine Baker Josephine Baker was an American-born French dancer and singer who symbolized the beauty and vitality of Black American culture, which took Paris by storm in the 1920s. Baker grew up fatherless and in poverty. Between the ages of 8 and 10 she was out of school, helping to support her family. As a 12 Influencers Throughout History Style for the ages. Dalip Singh Saund Dalip Singh Saund was the first Asian American, first Indian American, and first Sikh to be elected to the U.S. Congress. Before serving, he helped change a law so that Indians could become U.S. citizens. Saund was born in Chhajjal Wadi, in the Punjab province of northern India, which at the time 10 Queens of the Athletic Realm Throwing like a girl can be a good thing, too. Srinivasa Ramanujan Srinivasa Ramanujan was an Indian mathematician known for his contributions to infinite series, number theory, and the properties of the partition function. Ramanujan’s early life was unconventional for a mathematician. Born into a poor Brahmin family, he had little access to formal education and list of Summer Olympic athletes When sports fans look back and remember the Olympics of years gone by, it is not only their favorite sports that they remember but also the dynamic, talented, and inspiring athletes that made the Games worth watching. Below are select past and future Summer Olympic Games competitors and the Spotlight: Marie Curie The Polish-born French physicist was famous for her work on radioactivity, becoming the first woman to win a Nobel Prize in 1903 (for Physics), and later becoming the only woman to win a Nobel in two different fields when, in 1911, she won the Nobel Prize for Chemistry. The Extraordinary Life of Marie Curie How Marie Curie Developed Mobile X-ray Machines and Labs in WWI Marie Curie's 1926 Britannica Essay on Radium Quizzes I Am the Greatest (Athlete) Think you know a lot about famous athletes? This quiz might get your GOAT. Name that Painter! Can you tell a Monet from a Manet? Who's on that Stamp? This quiz requires attention—you can't just mail it in. First Ladies of the United States Quiz They have been hostesses, helpers, advisers, gatekeepers, guardians, confidantes, and sometimes formidable powers behind the scenes. How much do you know about the first ladies of the United States? Videos How do mobsters get their nicknames? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. How do mobsters get their nicknames? What made Sammy Davis, Jr., the world's greatest entertainer? Coco Chanel: From quiet luxury to Nazi affiliation David Attenborough: An explorer's life Who is Mae Jemison, the first African American female astronaut? Galleries Charles Darwin Royal Weddings Aristotle Featured Categories Actors Katharine Hepburn Katharine Hepburn was an indomitable American stage and film actress, known as a spirited performer with a touch of eccentricity. She introduced into her roles a strength of character previously considered to be undesirable in Hollywood leading ladies. As an actress, she was noted for her brisk Sidney Poitier Sidney Poitier was a Bahamian American actor, director, and producer who broke the color barrier in the U.S. motion-picture industry by becoming the first African American to win an Academy Award for best actor (for Lilies of the Field [1963]) and the first Black movie star. He also redefined roles Dorothy Dandridge Dorothy Dandridge was an American singer and film actress who was the first black woman to be nominated for an Academy Award for best actress. Dandridge’s mother was an entertainer and comedic actress who, after settling in Los Angeles, had some success in radio and, later, television. The young Laurence Olivier Laurence Olivier was a towering figure of the British stage and screen, acclaimed in his lifetime as the greatest English-speaking actor of the 20th century. He was the first member of his profession to be elevated to a life peerage. The son of an Anglican minister, Olivier attended All Saints Philosophers Avicenna Avicenna was a Muslim physician, the most famous and influential of the philosopher-scientists of the medieval Islamic world. He was particularly noted for his contributions in the fields of Aristotelian philosophy and medicine. He composed the Kit?b al-shif?? (Book of the Cure), a vast Plato Plato was an ancient Greek philosopher, student of Socrates (c. 470–399 bce), teacher of Aristotle (384–322 bce), and founder of the Academy. He is best known as the author of philosophical works of unparalleled influence and is one of the major figures of Classical antiquity. Building on the Cornel West Cornel West is an American philosopher, scholar of African American studies, and political activist. His influential book Race Matters (1993) lamented what he saw as the spiritual impoverishment of the African American underclass and critically examined the “crisis” of Black leadership in the Bertrand Russell Bertrand Russell was a British philosopher, logician, and social reformer, a founding figure in the analytic movement in Anglo-American philosophy, and recipient of the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1950. Russell’s contributions to logic, epistemology, and the philosophy of mathematics established Aviation Legends Amelia Earhart Amelia Earhart was an American aviator, one of the world’s most celebrated, who was the first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean. Her disappearance during a flight around the world in 1937 became an enduring mystery, fueling much speculation. Earhart’s father was a railroad lawyer, and her Charles Lindbergh Charles Lindbergh was an American aviator, one of the best-known figures in aeronautical history, remembered for the first nonstop solo flight across the Atlantic Ocean, from New York City to Paris, on May 20–21, 1927. Lindbergh’s early years were spent chiefly in Little Falls, Minnesota, and in Harriet Quimby Harriet Quimby was an American aviator, the first female pilot to fly across the English Channel. Quimby’s birth date and place are not well attested. (She sometimes claimed 1884 in Arroyo Grande, California.) By 1902, however, it is known that she and her family were living in California, and in Wright brothers Wright brothers, were American inventors and aviation pioneers who achieved the first powered, sustained, and controlled airplane flight (1903). Wilbur Wright (April 16, 1867, near Millville, Indiana, U.S.—May 30, 1912, Dayton, Ohio) and his brother Orville Wright (August 19, 1871, Dayton—January History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
