URL: https://britannica.com/science/rhombus
Title: Rhombus | Definition, Properties, Formulas, & Facts | Britannica
H1: rhombus
H2: Properties Formulas for perimeter and area Rhombuses in daily life
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: rhombus
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. rhombus Table of Contents Introduction Properties Formulas for perimeter and area Rhombuses in daily life References & Edit History Related Topics Images Read Next Unusual Counting Systems Is Zero an Even or an Odd Number? Discover Did Duchess Anastasia Survive Her Family’s Execution? Where Is “Old Zealand”? What Comes After Terabyte? Timeline of the 1990s 9 American Political Scandals 9 Questions About the Vietnam War Answered Is Australia an Island? Contents Science Mathematics Calculating the area of a rhombus This diagram shows an example of calculating the area of a rhombus using the formula area = height × base, which can also be expressed as area = altitude × side length. This diagram also shows many of the characteristics of a rhombus. (more) rhombus mathematics Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/science/rhombus Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Ask the Chatbot a Question Also known as: rhombi, rhombuses Written by L. Sue Baugh L. Sue Baugh is a writer and editor who works in the educational, business, and science/medical fields. L. Sue Baugh Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Plural: rhombuses or rhombi (Show more) See all related content rhombus, a four-sided, or quadrilateral, geometric figure in which all four sides are of the same length and each of the two pairs of opposite sides are parallel to each other. A rhombus is an equilateral parallelogram. The word rhombus comes from the Greek rhombos, meaning “a spinning top” or “a piece of wood whirled on a string.” Rhombuses can be seen in everyday life, in applications ranging from traffic signboards to jewelry to interior and exterior design. Properties A rhombus has several distinct characteristics: All four sides of the rhombus are equal in length. Opposite sides of a rhombus are parallel to each other. The two opposite pairs of angles within the rhombus are equal to each other. If one angle is 60°, the opposite angle must also be 60°. Any two adjacent angles (angles next to each other) within the rhombus add up to 180°. For example, if one angle is 55°, the angle next to it will be 125°. A rhombus is also called a diamond. If all four interior angles are 90°, the rhombus becomes a square. The sum of all interior angles of a rhombus is always 360°. If two diagonal lines are drawn across each pair of opposite corners, they will be perpendicular to and bisect (divide into equal halves) each other at an angle of 90°. These diagonal lines will also bisect the angles they pass through. Formulas for perimeter and area The perimeter, or distance around the edges, of a rhombus is calculated by multiplying the length of one side of the rhombus by 4.perimeter of a rhombus = 4 × side lengthIf a rhombus has a side length of 4 units, its perimeter will be 16 units:4 × side length = 4 × 4 = 16 The area of a rhombus can be calculated using either of two methods. In the first method, the area is calculated by multiplying the side of the rhombus by its altitude (distance between two opposite sides, which can also be called its height):method 1: area of a rhombus = altitude × side lengthA rhombus with a side length of 5 units and an altitude (height) of 6 units will have an area of 30 square units.method 1: area = 5 × 6 = 30 square unitsThis method can be used when both the side length and the altitude are known. In the second method, instead of the side length, the lengths of the two diagonals (lines joining the pairs of opposite corners) of the rhombus are used. The area is calculated by multiplying the lengths of the two diagonals and dividing by two:method 2: area of a rhombus = length of diagonal 1 × length of diagonal 2/ 2A rhombus with diagonals of length 7 units and 8 units will thus have an area of:method 2: area = 7 × 8/2 = 28 square units Rhombuses in daily life A rhombic latticeA close-up of an argyle design, which is an example of a rhombic lattice—a pattern of interlaced rhombuses.(more) Flat gardening and masonry trowels often take the shape of a rhombus. The pointed end makes it easy to dig into the earth or the thick mortar. The broad middle section of the trowel is then used to lift dirt or to lay mortar between bricks or masonry stones. What is a rhombic lattice? A rhombic lattice is a lattice (an interlaced pattern) that has a rhombus as its fundamental design element. Rhombic lattices help portray both two-dimensional and three-dimensional designs. Rhombic lattices are often used in wallpaper, floor and wall tiling, carpeting, and clothing designs. The classic argyle pattern usually seen on socks and sweaters features diamond shapes. In several countries, including the United States, many traffic departments use diamond-shaped yellow warning signs to indicate potentially dangerous road conditions ahead, such as slippery surfaces, merging lanes, or sharp curves. Other common uses of the rhombus include jewelry designs, as for earrings, pendants, and rings, as well as equilateral kites. A baseball field, or “diamond,” is also a rhombus. Some modern buildings, such as the Crain Communications Building in Chicago, prominently incorporate this geometric figure in their structure. The logo of the Japanese automaker Mitsubishi features three red rhombuses sharing a common vertex. L. Sue Baugh
