URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Literature
Title: Literature Portal | Britannica
H1: Literature
H2: Featured content, May 02, 2025 Literature Quizzes Literature Videos Literature Subcategories
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Literature Literature With the development of language, the human imagination has found a way to create and communicate through the written word. A literary work can transport us into a fictional, fantastic new world, describe a fleeting feeling, or simply give us a picture of the past through novels, poems, tragedies, epic works, and other genres. Through literature, communication becomes an art, and it can bridge and bond people and cultures of different languages and backgrounds. Browse Subcategories Folk Literature & Fable Fictional Characters Journalism Libraries & Reference Works Literatures of the World Literary Criticism Literary Terms Nonfiction Novels & Short Stories Oratory Plays Poetry Featured content, May 02, 2025 Why Do Languages Die? How does someone become the last known speaker of a language? 7 Quintessential National-Spelling-Bee-Winning Words Can you spell these? (T-h-e-s-e!) Diagnosing 9 of Charles Dickens’s Most Famous Characters Dickens had a knack for expertly portraying human diseases. What did Sir Walter Scott write? What did Sir Walter Scott write? Arabic literature Arabic literature, the body of written works produced in the Arabic language. The tradition of Arabic literature stretches... Central Asian arts Central Asian arts, literary, performing, and visual arts of a large portion of Asia embracing the Turkic republics (Uzbekistan,... Australian literature Australian literature, the body of literatures, both oral and written, produced in Australia. Perhaps more so than in other... Canadian literature Canadian literature, the body of written works produced by Canadians. Reflecting the country’s dual origin and its official... Literature Quizzes English and Irish Playwrights (Part One) Quiz The British Isles have a long history of theatre, with many notable playwrights. How much do you know about those from England... Science Fiction Writers Quiz Science fiction has a long history and wide influence. Here’s a quick tour through some of this genre’s greatest writers.... Poets and Poetry (Part One) Quiz Do you know who wrote “The Wild Swans at Coole”? What’s the title of the first known play in blank verse? Take a tour of... Irony, Oxymoron, Alliteration, and More: A Quiz Test what you know about literary terms with this quiz. Poets and Poetry (Part Two) Quiz Do you know which ancient Roman poet wrote Metamorphoses? Who wrote poetry to a woman named Laura? Test the outer... Japanese Literature: A Pop Quiz Here’s an extremely short quiz about the long history of Japanese literature. (Hint: It’s mostly about renga.) How... Literary Terms (Part Three) Quiz Do you know what figure of speech relies on the words like or as to compare two things? If you do, take... Another Russian Literature Quiz Who wrote Dead Souls? Which character is the protagonist in Crime and Punishment? Test what you know about... Chinese Literature Quiz How much do you know about the history of Chinese literature? Find out with this quiz. Ancient Greek Literature Quiz How well do you know Old Comedy? Who wrote Oedipus the King? Figure out what you know about ancient Greek literature... Literature Videos How did Phillis Wheatley become a poet? Investigate the moral and philosophical implications of Shakespeare's tragic protagonist's murderous crimes Learn about the life and work of novelist Jean Rhys Learn about James Salter, his childhood and how he got interested in literature Hear Donald Moffatt as George Bernard Shaw discuss William Shakespeare's eponymous protagonist Julius Caesar Listen to the letters of poet Emily Dickinson and Col. Thomas Higginson to glimpse her unique character Examine John Stow's systematic description of 16th-century London in his work A Survey of London Uncover America's past at the Library of Congress, the world's largest library Pass through the towns, the streets, and the passageways, the Porte de Breuil and the Place du Terreau of France See Russian author Fyodor Dostoyevsky's short story “The Crocodile” brought to life Never Miss a Day in History Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers delivered right to your inbox. Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Literature Subcategories Folk Literature & Fable Step into the world of folklore, fables, legends, tall tales, and epics, in which heroes are known to undertake arduous journeys and dragons, fairies, and giants abound. Stories such as these circulated long before systems of writing were developed; ballads, folktales, poems, and the like were transmitted exclusively by word of mouth before written languages took over, and they continue to captivate listeners and readers to this day. Articles Erasmus Dutch humanist African American folktale literature trickster tale folklore Fictional Characters Here you'll find some of your favorite fictional characters from literature, film, television, and the like, whether it's the analytical mastermind Sherlock Holmes and his endearing associate Dr. Watson or the menacing and helmeted Darth Vader, the ill-tempered Donald Duck, or the teenage sleuth Nancy Drew. Articles Fantastic Four fictional characters Wonder Woman fictional character James Bond fictional character Journalism Extra, extra! Although the content and style of journalism and the medium through which it is delivered have varied significantly over the years, journalism has always given us a way to keep up with current events, so that we always have our fingers on the pulse. Articles Walter Cronkite American journalist Dan Rather American newscaster Bob Woodward American journalist and author Libraries & Reference Works Looking to impress your friends with your expansive knowledge of historical events, philosophical concepts, obscure words, and more? We may be biased, but it seems fair enough to say that reference works such as dictionaries, encyclopedias, and textbooks have provided such a service for years (in some cases, hundreds or even thousands of years). You can look for them at your local public library, which likely stores books, manuscripts, journals, CDs, movies, and other sources of information and entertainment. Articles Ptolemy Egyptian astronomer, mathematician, and geographer Albrecht von Haller Swiss biologist John James Audubon American artist Literatures of the World Literature knows no geographical bounds; authors can be found in nearly all corners of the globe. Find out more about regional literary styles and forms. Articles Persian literature Italian literature Russian literature Literary Criticism Everyone's a critic. But not all literary criticism involves judging the quality of a text; it can also focus on interpreting the meaning of a work or evaluating an author's place in literary history. Articles Roland Barthes French critic Helen Archibald Clarke and Charlotte Endymion Porter American writers Samuel Taylor Coleridge British poet and critic Literary Terms Want to be able to distinguish your limericks from your haikus and your paeans from your panegyrics? Dive deep into literary terms and forms. Articles metaphor epic literary genre epistolary novel literature Nonfiction The truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth! Or that's the idea, at least. Nonfiction works center on facts and real events. Although there is some debate about which kinds of literature qualify as nonfiction, the genre typically includes books in the categories of biography, memoir, science, history, self-help, cooking, health and fitness, business, and more. Articles journalism The Feminine Mystique work by Friedan The Diary of a Young Girl work by Frank Novels & Short Stories novels and short stories have been enchanting and transporting readers for a great many years. There's a little something for everyone: within these two genres of literature, a wealth of types and styles can be found, including historical, epistolary, romantic, Gothic, and realist works, along with many more. Articles The Catcher in the Rye novel by Salinger graphic novel literature The Great Gatsby novel by Fitzgerald Oratory speech and Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, quoted above, are two iconic examples of successful oratory, as are Elizabeth I's speech to the troops at Tilbury and Winston Churchill's first speech as prime minister to the House of Commons. Articles oratory rhetoric Tecumseh Shawnee chief Quintilian Roman rhetorician Plays ; and the stage is where you'll find performances of works by such famed playwrights as Anton Chekhov, Eugene O'Neill, and the Bard himself, among many others. Articles Hamlet work by Shakespeare Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? play by Albee Henry IV, Part 1 work by Shakespeare Poetry ; sonnets, haikus, nursery rhymes, epics, and more are included. Articles rhythm poetry Howl poem by Ginsberg The Lady of Shalott poem by Tennyson Home Literature History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
