URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Geography-Travel
Title: Geography & Travel Portal | Britannica
H1: Geography & Travel
H2: Featured content, May 02, 2025 Geography & Travel Quizzes Geography & Travel Videos Geography & Travel Subcategories
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Planet Earth contains some extraordinarily diverse environments, some of which are easily habitable and some not so much. In different areas of Earth, one might find sweltering deserts, dense tropical rainforests, or bone-chilling tundras. Each biome and habitat comes with its own selection of flora and fauna, and it may include physical features such as canyons, volcanoes, rivers, or caves. Human beings have built homes in many different environments, settling the area and organizing it into units such as cities, states, regions, and countries, each with its own points of interest. Shifting trends in human migration have resulted in a human geography that is profoundly different from that of centuries ago. Browse Subcategories Cities & Towns Countries of the World Historical Places Highways & Trails Human Geography Languages Physical Geography of Land Physical Geography of Water Nature Reserves & National Parks States & Other Subdivisions Tourist Attractions Geographic Regions Featured content, May 02, 2025 Is "Holland" the Same Place as "the Netherlands"? Have you been using the wrong name? 20 Buildings Not to Miss in Australia Know before you go. 9 of the World’s Deepest Lakes How deep is your lake? What Is Known (and Not Known) About the Bermuda Triangle People have been trying to solve the “mystery” of the Bermuda Triangle for years. Here’s what we know (and don’t know) about... Dravidian languages Dravidian languages, family of some 70 languages spoken primarily in South Asia. The Dravidian languages are spoken by more... glacial landform Glacial landform, any product of flowing ice and meltwater. Such landforms are being produced today in glaciated areas, such... mountain Mountain, landform that rises prominently above its surroundings, generally exhibiting steep slopes, a relatively confined... lake Lake, any relatively large body of slowly moving or standing water that occupies an inland basin of appreciable size. Definitions... Geography & Travel Quizzes Where in America is That? Crisscross the U.S. by placing these famous landmarks. Where on Earth is That? Travel the globe by naming these famous landmarks. Guess the Language! Quiz Can you recognize a language by its greeting? Name That U.S. National Park Quiz Can you tell Yellowstone from Yosemite? Wonders of the World Quiz Covering the ancient, new, and natural—prove you are no one-hit wonder. The Irish Quiz Try your luck with these questions, spanning from Jonathan Swift to shillelaghs. Guess the Countries of the World Quiz Test your global positioning skills. Where on Earth Is That? Vol. 2 Quiz Try to get high marks identifying these landmarks. Which Country Is Larger? Quiz See how these countries measure up. Which Is Taller? Quiz Twenty questions of epic proportions. Geography & Travel Videos Explore the historical baroque churches and neoclassical sites of Porto from the Luis I Bridge and the River Douro The rich history of Worms, Germany Examine the history of Mexico City, from the Aztecs to the conquistadores Visit the world's southernmost city to learn of its past whaling reliance and current production of fine wool Take in a top to bottom look at Paris's Eiffel Tower commissioned for the International Exposition of 1889 Sochi, Russia: A subtropical resort and winter sports haven Witness Bambuti trade elephant tusks, cloth, and a pangolin for iron tools, plantains, and salt with Bantu Image Gallery Geography & Travel View Gallery Never Miss a Day in History Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers delivered right to your inbox. Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Geography & Travel Subcategories Cities & Towns This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles Quebec Quebec, Canada Melbourne Victoria, Australia Edinburgh Scotland, United Kingdom Countries of the World Although there isn’t universal agreement on the question of what qualifies as a “country,” it is generally accepted that in order to be a country, a state must be a sovereign unit that has a permanent population, defined territorial boundaries, a government, and the ability to enter into agreements with other states. Even when these conditions are met, however, internationally recognized independence is not a given, and a territorial entity that declares itself to be an independent country is not always recognized as such by the rest of the world. Articles Ukraine India Hungary Historical Places This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles history of Mesopotamia historical region, Asia Wartburg castle, Germany Empire of Japan historic state Highways & Trails This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles Ho Chi Minh Trail trail, Asia National Road highway, United States Northwest Passage trade route, North America Human Geography Since 1945 human geography has contained five main divisions. The first four—economic, social, cultural, and political—reflect both the main areas of contemporary life and the social science disciplines with which geographers interact (i.e., economics, sociology, anthropology, and political science and international relations, respectively); the fifth is historical geography. Articles Indigenous peoples of the Great Plains North American peoples ancient Italic people Indigenous peoples of the American Southwest people Languages Language, a system of conventional spoken, manual, or written symbols by means of which human beings, as members of a social group and participants in its culture, express themselves. The functions of language include communication, the expression of identity, play, imaginative expression, and emotional release. Articles writing semiotics study of signs English language Physical Geography of Land Earth’s geographic history has been one marked by significant overall change, with ice ages, continental drift, and other major disruptions ultimately shaping Earth's land into the landscape of mountain ranges, deserts, islands, and volcanoes that we see today. Articles South America continent Africa continent canyon geology Physical Geography of Water Whether it's Lake Michigan, the Gulf of Panama, or the River Thames, bodies of water of all shapes and sizes can be found around the globe, and they play a critical role for human beings, who use such bodies of water as a source of drinking water, a means of transporting both goods and people themselves, or a place to engage in water sports, among a plethora of other possible uses. Additionally, many bodies of water provide striking scenes of natural beauty and house important marine ecosystems. Satiate your thirst for knowledge about Earth's oceans, lakes, seas, rivers, waterfalls, bays, and more. Articles Arctic Ocean Great Pacific Garbage Patch polluted region, Pacific Ocean ocean Earth feature Nature Reserves & National Parks Nature reserves are areas set aside for the purpose of preserving and protecting plants and animals, particularly endangered species. National parks may effectively serve a similar purpose by shielding threatened species from hunters, but these parks can also be created for the purpose of public recreation, affording its visitors a chance to be immersed in a protected natural environment. Many national parks have been created in the last 100 years, including Yellowstone National Park, the oldest and probably the best-known national park in the United States. Articles Sequoia National Park national park, California, United States Wrangell–Saint Elias National Park and Preserve national park, Alaska, United States Denali National Park and Preserve national park, Alaska, United States States & Other Subdivisions Every nation has its own subdivisions to demarcate smaller political units within its territory. Counties, districts, oblasts, polis, nomos, unitary authorities, boroughs, and cities are all examples (among many others) of how land can be organized. Articles Michigan state, United States California state, United States New York state, United States Tourist Attractions This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles Palace of Versailles palace, Versailles, France Sydney Opera House building, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia Mount Fuji mountain, Japan Geographic Regions This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles North Africa region, Africa Central Asia region, Asia Silicon Valley region, California, United States Home Geography & Travel History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
