URL: https://britannica.com/story/is-australia-an-island
Title: Is Australia an Island? | Britannica
H1: Is Australia an Island?
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: By that definition, Australia can’t be an island because it’s already a continent.
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Discover 5 Unbelievable Facts About Christopher Columbus 7 Deadliest Weapons in History Where Is “Old Zealand”? Timeline of the 1990s Why Is the Mona Lisa So Famous? Nostradamus and His Prophecies 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms Home Demystified Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Actions Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/story/is-australia-an-island Is Australia an Island? Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/story/is-australia-an-island Written by John M. Cunningham John M. Cunningham graduated from Kalamazoo College in 2000 with a B.A. in English. He worked at Britannica from 2004 to 2018. A student of pop culture and the arts, he wrote about popular (and semipopular)... John M. Cunningham Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica (more)Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. At about 3 million square miles (7.7 million square km), Australia is the smallest continent on Earth. In fact, it’s closer in size to Greenland than it is to South America. Does that make Australia an island like Greenland? Although Australia is sometimes called an “island continent,” most geographers consider islands and continents to be separate things. According to Britannica, an island is a mass of land that is both “entirely surrounded by water” and also “smaller than a continent.” By that definition, Australia can’t be an island because it’s already a continent. But in that case, what’s the difference between Australia and Greenland? Why isn’t Greenland (at 836,000 square miles [2,165,230 square km]) considered a continent instead of just the world’s largest island? Unfortunately, there isn’t a strict scientific definition of a continent. But there are a few criteria that are commonly used to distinguish one continent from another. First, there is a geological distinction. While Australia and most of Asia are situated on separate tectonic plates, Greenland shares a tectonic plate with North America. Second, there is a biological distinction. While a large percentage of Australia’s plant and animal species can be found nowhere else in the world, fewer of Greenland’s species are unique. Third, there is an anthropological distinction. Aboriginal people are limited to Australia, while indigenous Greenlanders belong to a group of peoples (the Inuit) found throughout the Arctic, including parts of Canada, the United States, and Russia. While each of those criteria may not be sufficient on its own—for instance, Europe and Asia also share a tectonic plate but are usually considered separate continents for cultural reasons—together they form a general understanding of what qualifies as a continent. Of course, there’s also the basic matter of size. Australia is nearly four times as large as Greenland. If they were much closer in area, Greenland might have more of a case for continent status (and Australia for island status). As it is, the vast difference between the two makes for a good dividing line. Load More
