URL: https://britannica.com/technology/distress-signal
Title: Distress signal | Emergency Protocols, Maritime Safety & Radio Signals | Britannica
H1: distress signal
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: distress signal
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. distress signal Table of Contents Introduction References & Edit History Related Topics Read Next Deepwater Horizon Disaster: Five Years Later Is the Number of Hurricanes Increasing? The Great Molasses Flood and 6 Other Strange Disasters 6 of the World’s Deadliest Natural Disasters Five Years Later: The Great Sendai Earthquake Discover All 119 References in “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained Why Is the Mona Lisa So Famous? All 81 References in Fall Out Boy’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms Is Australia an Island? How Many Countries Are There in the World? Vietnam War Timeline Contents Technology The Web & Communication distress signal communications Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/technology/distress-signal Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Queensland Government - Maritime Safety Queensland - Distress signals, flares and emergency beacons Ask the Chatbot a Question Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Related Topics: What Does SOS Mean? Mayday Pan Pan Pan NC SOS (Show more) See all related content distress signal, a method by which a ship at sea can summon assistance. Distress signals are fixed by custom and by internationally agreed-on rules of the road at sea. The most important are: (1) visual signals, such as a flame, a red flare, an orange smoke signal, or a square flag displayed with a ball below; (2) sound signals, such as a gun or rocket fired at regular intervals, or a continuous sounding of a fog-signal apparatus; and (3) radio signals such as the Morse group SOS, the international code signal NC, or the spoken word “Mayday” (pronounced like the French m’aider, “help me”), by radiotelephone. Distressed vessels may also actuate alarms of other vessels by a radio signal consisting of a series of 12 four-second dashes or by a radiotelephone signal consisting of two tones alternately transmitted for 30 to 60 seconds. This article was most recently revised and updated by Amy Tikkanen.
