URL: https://britannica.com/money/what-is-inflation
Title: What Is Inflation? | Britannica Money
H1: Inflation impact: Rising prices project strength, but too much is painful
H2: Key Points Inflation definition Why inflation can be helpful Inflation’s impact on consumers Government leverage The bottom line References
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Written by Fact-checked by Headline CPI and PPI. Core CPI and PPI. The Fed funds rate target. The Fed’s balance sheet.
Body: History & SocietyScience & TechBiographiesAnimals & NatureGeography & TravelArts & CultureProConGames & QuizzesVideosOn This DayOne Good FactDictionary Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Health & Medicine Science Technology Browse Biographies Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual ArtsCompanionsDemystifiedImage GalleriesInfographicsListsPodcastsSpotlightSummariesTop Questions#WTFactBritannica Kids Household Finance Investing Trading Retirement Companies Biographies Finance & the Economy Table of Contents Introduction Inflation definition Why inflation can be helpful Inflation’s impact on consumers Government leverage The bottom line References Read More inflation economic indicator What housing market data can indicate about the broader economy Table Of Contents Investing Economic Data Inflation impact: Rising prices project strength, but too much is painful Why “Goldilocks” inflation is best. Print Cite Share Written byDan Rosenberg Dan Rosenberg Dan is a veteran writer and editor specializing in financial news, market education, and public relations. Earlier in his career, he spent nearly a decade covering corporate news and markets for Dow Jones Newswires, with his articles frequently appearing in The Wall Street Journal and Barron’s. Fact-checked byDoug Ashburn Doug Ashburn Doug is a Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst who spent more than 20 years as a derivatives market maker and asset manager before “reincarnating” as a financial media professional a decade ago. Updated: Apr. 28, 2025 Table of Contents Introduction Inflation definition Why inflation can be helpful Inflation’s impact on consumers Government leverage The bottom line References Read More inflation economic indicator What housing market data can indicate about the broader economy Table Of Contents Open full sized image Rising costs are one form of inflation, but there's a lot more to the story. Justin Sullivan—Getty Images North America/Getty Images News • BSP Says FX Intervention Targets Inflation, Not Capital Flows • Apr. 25, 2025, 11:41 PM ET(Bloomberg.com)...(Show more) These days, you can’t tune into TV or social media without hearing about inflation. But what is inflation, why does it happen, and how is it measured? Are rising prices good or bad? Alarm bells ring if prices rise too quickly, but the opposite—deflation, or falling prices—is arguably worse. Economists and policy makers tend to like the “Goldilocks” level that’s not too hot or cold. Of course, it doesn’t feel pleasant when your morning cappuccino goes up 25 cents or the landlord hikes your rent. But mild inflation can signal a healthy economy, reflecting both firm demand and growing wealth. You don’t generally see much inflation during recessions. Ideally, economic inflation shouldn't be too hot or too cold. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Key Points Inflation may refer to rising prices for single products or increases in the overall cost of living. Inflation is measured for wholesale and consumer prices, with food and energy sometimes excluded. Too little inflation can reflect economic problems; mild inflation can be healthy; and too much is devastating. Paying more for your coffee or rent is one inflation definition. But inflation also refers to overall increases in prices and the cost of living. Governments measure the inflation rate by putting together a basket of common goods and services and calculating how much they’d cost each month. Producer inflation measures wholesale prices, meaning prices paid by businesses that purchase large volumes of product. Another type is wage inflation, which may sound good for your paycheck, but can spell economic trouble if it gets out of hand. Inflation definition Inflation is a natural and healthy part of a growing economy, provided it stays under control and peoples’ salaries don’t lag behind the general rise in prices. Prices rise as populations grow, economies get richer, demand increases, and commodities get scarcer and more expensive. Companies hike prices to meet rising demand, or to pay higher wages and buy more expensive raw materials. Inflation can also occur when governments inject money into the economy. This can lower the value of the currency relative to the things it will buy, causing producers to demand more cash for the things they make and sell. Another common inflation scenario is a shortage of raw materials. This can be caused by heavy demand (lumber prices exploded after the start of the global pandemic) or supply problems (oil hit near-record highs in 2022 when Russia invaded Ukraine and multiple nations cut off most Russian oil imports). Oil often gets blamed for inflationary bumps because, like your coffee, everything runs on it. You need oil to go places; companies need it to make and ship their products. When pricey oil raises shipping costs for businesses, that often gets passed along to customers in the form of higher price tags for all sorts of goods. That’s inflation causing inflation in a vicious cycle. The government tracks U.S. inflation and provides monthly updates through the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and Producer Price Index (PPI) reports. The first one monitors prices paid by consumers, the second tracks wholesale prices. CPI and PPI are measured in two ways: Headline CPI and PPI. This is the total inflation of the basket of goods and services tracked by the U.S. government. The basket can change slightly over time. Core CPI and PPI. This is the inflation rate after stripping out volatile energy and food prices that can cause the headline number to vary dramatically from month to month. Ignoring food and energy helps economists understand basic inflation for goods and services that are less vulnerable to sudden price swings. Plus, because energy prices affect other components of CPI and PPI, including those prices could “double-count” some inflation. Sometimes PPI and CPI rise at different rates. When producer prices rise, companies don’t always immediately pass along their higher costs to consumers, fearing loss of demand. In a strong economy, however, many companies eventually do hike prices if they believe consumers can afford to pay more. Companies that pay higher wholesale costs and don’t raise customer prices risk a decline in profit margins. That’s why a rise in PPI is often soon followed by a rise in CPI as companies accept the inevitable and ask their customers to help foot the bill for pricier shipping or raw materials. Why inflation can be helpful For about a decade leading up to 2020, the Federal Reserve (Fed) has had an inflation “target rate” of 2%. Why not zero? Because a little inflation is actually good as long as salaries keep up. Here’s why: When prices rise regularly, people become more inclined to invest and spend their money, hoping to outpace inflation. When people invest and spend, companies have more resources to innovate, invest, and hire. Company investment and hiring stimulates economic growth. When the economy grows, so does competition for the best workers. Companies raise wages to get them. Growing companies, well-compensated investors, and better-paid workers pay more in taxes, allowing the government to spend more. This can also boost the economy. Inflation’s impact on consumers Just the thought of inflation can get people to buy. Consider this scenario: You’ve spent several years saving $5,000 for the down payment on a new car. You know car prices have been rising 5% each year. You decide to head to the dealer sooner rather than later, before prices rise again. If you didn’t expect prices to rise (i.e., if the economy were experiencing stagnant prices or even deflation), you might simply wait longer to buy. It’s the prospect of rising prices that gets your money out of the bank and into the economy. It also provides the car company, the dealer, and their employees some fresh cash to spend once they get your check. As the saying goes, “One person’s expenditure is another’s income.” Now envision this happening every day across the country among millions of consumers and businesses. Consumer spending accounts for about 70% of U.S. gross domestic product (GDP), and can be a major force to stimulate economic growth. Government leverage Governments often try to fuel or cool inflation. By spending more, cutting taxes, or sending “stimulus checks,” the federal government can inject massive amounts of money into the economy when growth slows, inspiring people to shop and companies to invest. This tends to increase inflation as more people chase goods, raising demand. The Federal Reserve (the Fed) also has levers to control inflation: The Fed funds rate target. Fed funds are balances held at Federal Reserve banks. The market determines that rate, but it’s influenced by the Fed funds target rate that the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) of the Federal Reserve sets eight times a year. The Fed’s balance sheet. When necessary, the Fed can increase or decrease the number of assets on its books by buying and selling securities on the open market. If you’ve heard the term “quantitative easing,” or its opposite, “quantitative tightening,” that’s Fed-speak for balance sheet expansion and contraction. When the economy slows, the central bank can reduce the Fed funds rate and/or buy fixed-income securities (Treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities, for example) to make borrowing easier, inspiring businesses to invest and consumers to buy cars and homes. Or it can raise rates and/or decrease the size of its balance sheet if inflation runs hot. Higher rates mean mortgages and car loans get more costly, easing demand and keeping money out of the economy. Eventually, that can slow price growth. The bottom line Both now and historically, the U.S. inflation rate has been a burning political and economic issue. In the 1970s, Washington even launched an effort called “Whip Inflation Now” (WIN), with its own campaign buttons. The Fed eventually helped whip that historic inflation by jacking up interest rates to all-time highs above 15%, but not without tons of consumer pain through two back-to-back recessions in the early 1980s. Fear of Fed tightening tends to hurt stocks, and falling stock prices can make investors and companies nervous and less likely to spend, slowing the economy. That’s another reason why a little inflation is good, but a lot hurts. Deflation also hurts, as evidenced by the Great Depression. What’s the “Goldilocks” level? Economists differ, but that 2% rate continues to be the Fed’s target. References Consumer Price Index, 1913–Present | minneapolisfed.org Shares of Gross Domestic Product: Personal Consumption Expenditures | fred.stlouisfed.gov Inflation: Prices on the Rise | imf.org Fed’s New Inflation Targeting Policy Seeks to Maintain Well-Anchored Expectations | dallasfed.org About UsPrivacy PolicyTerms & Conditions © 2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
