URL: https://britannica.com/topic/National-Labor-Union
Title: National Labor Union (NLU) | Britannica
H1: National Labor Union
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: National Labor Union (NLU)
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. National Labor Union Table of Contents Introduction References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Read Next Have Any U.S. Presidents Decided Not to Run For a Second Term? What State Is Washington, D.C. In? 14 Questions About Government in the United States Answered U.S. Death Toll During Major Events 26 Decade-Defining Events in U.S. History Discover America’s 5 Most Notorious Cold Cases (Including One You May Have Thought Was Already Solved) Where Is “Old Zealand”? Why Is the Mona Lisa So Famous? How Many Countries Are There in the World? Did Duchess Anastasia Survive Her Family’s Execution? 9 American Political Scandals Timeline of the 1990s Contents Politics, Law & Government Banking & Business National Labor Union American labor organization Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/topic/National-Labor-Union Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Library of Congress - Research Guides - Founding of the National Labor Union and the 1st National Call for a 8-Hour Work Day Ask the Chatbot a Question Also known as: NLU, National Labor Reform Party Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Quick Facts Date: 1866 - 1873 (Show more) Areas Of Involvement: political unionism labor movement (Show more) See all related content National Labor Union (NLU), in U.S. history, a political-action movement that from 1866 to 1873 sought to improve working conditions through legislative reform rather than through collective bargaining. The NLU began in 1866 with a convention in Baltimore, Md., called to organize skilled and unskilled labourers, farmers, and reformers into a coalition that would pressure Congress to pass a law limiting the workday to eight hours. Seventy-seven delegates attended the convention, and during its brief existence the National Labor Union may have had as many as 500,000 members. Acting on the belief that owners and workers shared identical interests, the NLU was opposed to strikes. It relied increasingly on political action to meet its goals and in 1872 transformed itself into the National Labor Reform Party. As such it nominated David Davis of Illinois, associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, as its presidential candidate. Davis withdrew his candidacy, however, and the party made a poor showing at the polls. After holding one last convention in 1873, the National Labor Union collapsed and disappeared.
