URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Philosophy-Religion
Title: Philosophy & Religion Portal | Britannica
H1: Philosophy & Religion
H2: Featured content, May 02, 2025 Philosophy & Religion Quizzes Philosophy & Religion Videos Philosophy & Religion Subcategories
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Philosophy & Religion Philosophy & Religion Humans have long pondered not only how we came to be but also why we came to be. The earliest Greek philosophers focused their attention upon the origin and nature of the physical world; later philosophers have theorized about the nature of knowledge, truth, good and evil, love, friendship, and much more. Philosophy involves a methodical assessment of any and all aspects of human existence and experience. The realms of philosophy and religion have sometimes intersected in conducting such inquiries as these. As with philosophy, the study of religion underscores how humankind has long speculated about its origins. The possibility of a higher being (or beings) to which livings things owe their existence has long captived human thought. Many religions also offer their own views on the nature of good and evil, and they may prescribe guidelines and judgment on different kinds of human behavior. Browse Subcategories Ancient Religions & Mythology Ethical Issues Humanities Philosophers Philosophical Issues Religious Beliefs Religious Personages & Scholars Religious Places Sacred Art & Music Scriptures Spirituality Religious Movements & Organizations Featured content, May 02, 2025 Roman Catholic Saints “All you holy men and women pray for us.” To All Nations: 8 Fascinating Jesuit Missionaries They came, they taught, they converted. Brain Games: 8 Philosophical Puzzles and Paradoxes Dust off your thinking cap. What Do Eggs Have to Do with Easter? Easter or not, bunnies don’t lay eggs linguistics Linguistics, the scientific study of language. The word was first used in the middle of the 19th century to emphasize the... philosophy of science Philosophy of science, the study, from a philosophical perspective, of the elements of scientific inquiry. This article discusses... Confucius Confucius was China’s most famous teacher, philosopher, and political theorist, whose ideas have profoundly influenced the... Judaism Judaism, monotheistic religion developed among the ancient Hebrews. Judaism is characterized by a belief in one transcendent... Philosophy & Religion Quizzes Ghosts: Fact or Fiction? Eek, a ghost! Or is that a ghost bat? Or a word game? Test your knowledge of all kinds of ghosts with this true or false... Happy Hanukkah Quiz How many days is Hanukkah celebrated? How many candles are on the menorah? See how much you know about Hanukkah with this... “Oh, Christmas Tree!” Quiz “Oh, Christmas tree, Oh Christmas tree, how did you come to be?” See how much you know about the origin of the Christmas... Jolly Old St. Nicholas Quiz You probably know that the legend of Santa Claus evolved from St. Nicholas. But who is this saint, anyway? The Meaning of Epiphany Quiz When is Epiphany celebrated in the Eastern Orthodox Church? In the West? What does Epiphany celebrate, anyway? Answer these... Ancient Gods and Monsters Quiz Who is Quetzalcóatl’s dog-headed companion? Who are the group of maidens who serve the god Odin? Test your knowledge.... Hindu Religion and Myth Quiz What is the name of the monkey commander of the monkey army mentioned in the Ramayana? Who is the Hindu goddess... Norse Mythology Basics Quiz Who was the son of the chief god Odin and his wife, Frigg? What is the name of Thor’s hammer? Test your knowledge. Take the... More Norse Mythology Quiz Who is the watchman of the gods? What is the name of the rainbow bridge that is the entrance to Asgard? Test your knowledge.... Zodiac Sign Quiz How well do you know the dates of the 12 astrological signs of the zodiac? This quiz will show you one of the signs, and... Philosophy & Religion Videos Uncover the linguistic influence of King James Bible on English literature Uncovering Christian graves from the Middle Ages Learn about Bible translations and the execution of William Tyndale for heresy after he translated the New Testament into English Learn about the spread of Islam in North Africa while observing Muslims praying at a mosque Watch The Humanities: A Bridge to Ourselves to understand how humankind discovers itself Exploring the holy sites of the Sinai Peninsula Who was Achilles? Image Gallery Philosophy & Religion View Gallery Never Miss a Day in History Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers delivered right to your inbox. Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Philosophy & Religion Subcategories Ancient Religions & Mythology What did our ancestors believe in? What myths and stories did they use to explain the world around them and find meaning in it? How have their beliefs influenced modern religion and spirituality? Explore these questions and more while discovering notable traditions, figures, and legends that figured prominently in ancient religion and mythology. Articles Germanic religion and mythology Arabian religion ancient religion Mesopotamian religion Ethical Issues What moral precepts guide us through tricky situations that may arise in relation to friendships, family, communities, and the work environment? Right and wrong are not always defined in the same way across different cultures. Articles normative ethics philosophy ethics philosophy ethical relativism philosophy Humanities The humanities are those branches of knowledge that concern themselves with human beings and their culture. The humanities include the study of all languages and literatures, the arts, history, and philosophy. Articles museum cultural institution humanism linguistics science Philosophers Here you'll find the thinkers and theorists who have expressed their own ideas about such topics as the nature of humankind's relationship with the metaphysical world, the definitions of truth and knowledge, and the conditions of existence. From ancient Greek philosophers such as Plato and Aristotle to later notable philosophers such as René Descartes and Immanuel Kant, philosophy's great thinkers have approached sensitive ethical and existential issues from a variety of different angles. Their ideas have influenced the way we look at our world and the way we relate to one another as human beings. Articles Voltaire French philosopher and author Jean-Jacques Rousseau Swiss-born French philosopher St. Augustine Christian bishop and theologian Philosophical Issues Do you embrace weighty topics such as the relative merits of empiricism and rationalism? An inquisitive spirit is all but a prerequisite for many of the topics listed here, which deal with the different approaches to and ideas about the big questions of life. Articles humanism Taoism Chinese philosophy and religion epistemology philosophy Religious Beliefs Our religious beliefs can affect our lifestyle, our perceptions, and our way of relating to fellow human beings. Is there a higher power (or powers) that governs the universe and judges all of us? Does committing a mortal sin mean the death of a soul, or is there a chance for forgiveness? The answers to such questions differ widely across different religions. Articles Islam religion Eastern Orthodoxy Christianity Judaism religion Religious Personages & Scholars This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles St. Joan of Arc French heroine Moses Hebrew prophet St. Paul the Apostle Christian Apostle Religious Places Human beings tend to relate to their religious beliefs through symbolism. Religious and sacred places—common destinations for pilgrims—represent a physical connection that helps believers express their devotion. Articles Lourdes France Dome of the Rock shrine, Jerusalem Serapeum ancient temples, Egypt Sacred Art & Music This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles Anton Bruckner Austrian composer Luigi Boccherini Italian composer Franz Liszt Hungarian composer Scriptures Sacred scriptures of all religions, viewed as the word of God or inspired by God, have influenced the moral and ethical standards of countries, peoples, and religious groups. Their interpretation has long been a subject of discussion and, at times, controversy. Articles Torah sacred text Bible sacred text Qur??n sacred text Spirituality This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles Jerusalem Middle East rite of passage religious experience Religious Movements & Organizations This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles Aladura Nigerian religion Essene ancient Jewish sect Counter-Reformation religious history Home Philosophy & Religion History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
