URL: https://www.britannica.com/
Title:  Britannica | Britannica
H1: 
H2: Animals in the News Popular on Britannica New on Britannica Popular ProCon Debate Topics Featured Games Trending Quizzes Featured Videos Explore Britannica Calculators More From Britannica
H3: Discover More Dates with History Articles Features Lists History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Explore Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Search Britannica Click here to search Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos American Poetry: Famous Poets, History, & Poems Learn More April 26, 2025 Animals in the News In case you missed it, several animals have been making headlines lately. The first live footage of a colossal squid in the wild was captured in a mesmerizing video. The first direct skeletal evidence of combat between gladiators and lions (specifically, Asiatic lions) during ancient Rome’s rule was unearthed in York, England. Wild chimpanzees have been observed, for the first time, sharing fermented fruit in a happy hour of intoxication. Meanwhile a Netflix documentary on pangolins has been receiving critical praise, and a live streamed moose migration in Sweden has captivated the web. Ready for Its Close-Up: The First Video of a Wild Colossal Squid Schmidt Ocean Institute Why Are Pangolins a Vulnerable Species? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Chimpanzees: So Like Us Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Discover More The Majestic Moose, the Largest Member of the Deer Family The Asiatic Lion, Only Found in India Dates with History This weekend marks three notable events—one that looks to the future, and two that honor the past. Arbor Day Arbor Day—a holiday dedicated to the planting of trees—is observed on the last Friday in April. It was first proposed in the 19th century by J. Sterling Morton, an American journalist and politician, who famously wrote, “Other holidays repose upon the past; Arbor Day proposes for the future.” Morton, the editor of a Nebraska newspaper and an avid naturalist, started the holiday locally. On the first Arbor Day in 1872, more than one million trees were planted in Nebraska. From there, the holiday gradually took root and flourished across the United States. ANZAC Day This weekend marks ANZAC Day in Australia and New Zealand, commemorating the landing of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) on the Gallipoli Peninsula in 1915 during World War I. The Allied troops in general, and ANZAC troops in particular, suffered heavy casualties during the Gallipoli Campaign. In 1920 Australia and New Zealand created ANZAC Day as an official holiday, and since then it has been broadened to become a memorial day honoring all who served and died in World Wars I and II and in the Korean and Vietnam wars. Papal funeral The funeral of Pope Francis will be held on Saturday, with a couple of breaks from tradition. The pope’s body is traditionally buried in three nested coffins made of cypress, zinc, and elm, respectively. But Francis, true to his humble nature, requested to be buried in a single wooden coffin. And while most popes are buried in St. Peter’s Basilica in Vatican City, Francis asked to be buried in the papal basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome. After that, a conclave will be called, typically 15 to 20 days after the pope’s death, when the election of a new pope begins. Popular on Britannica Articles Indus Waters Treaty Mumbai terrorist attacks of 2008 South Asia Francis Death Penalty pope Vatican City Swiss Guards Benedict XVI papacy Show More Show Less Features What Do Eggs Have to Do with Easter? How Deadly Is Quicksand? Nostradamus and His Prophecies What Is the Most Widely Practiced Religion in the World? Will Light-Speed Space Travel Ever Be Possible? Timeline of the Space Race, 1957–69 Which Religion Is the Oldest? The Rise of the Machines: Pros and Cons of the Industrial Revolution Where Is “Old Zealand”? Timeline of the 1990s Show More Show Less Lists 9 of the World’s Deadliest Snakes Timeline of the American Civil Rights Movement All 119 References in “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained Inventors and Inventions of the Industrial Revolution 10 Famous Artworks by Leonardo da Vinci 12 Greek Gods and Goddesses New Seven Wonders of the World 9 Things You Might Not Know About Adolf Hitler Korean War Timeline The Seven Sacraments of the Roman Catholic church Show More Show Less Investing Trading Retirement Household Finance Finance & the Economy Companies When trade policy turns contentious: Tariffs, currency devaluation, and other trade barriers What kind of mood is the market in? Check the Cboe Volatility Index (VIX) Understanding sequence risk and its impact on your retirement savings Filing your taxes: Answers to 6 frequently asked questions New on Britannica Pollution: cows vs. cars Cows are notorious for their emissions of methane. How does that compare to the carbon dioxide emissions from gas-powered cars? Desert tarantula This large hairy North American spider with a venomous bite is native to the southwest U.S. and northern Mexico. Who invented the high five? The high five is one of the most popular gestures in the world, often used in a celebratory manner. How did it start? The symbols on a dollar bill This interactive explores the deeper meaning of the symbols on the U.S. dollar, which tell a story all their own. Popular ProCon Debate Topics Book Bans Should Parents or Other Adults Be Able to Ban Books from Schools and Libraries? Fighting in Hockey Should Fighting Be Allowed in Hockey? Artificial Intelligence (AI) Is Artificial Intelligence Good for Society? Homework Is Homework Beneficial? Featured Games See All Quordle Can you solve four words at once? Tightrope A daily trivia game Blossom Pick the best words Octordle The party starts at eight Pilfer A delightful ruthless word game The Missing Letter A daily crossword with a twist Twofer Goofer Think you know it, poet? Victordle Play head-to-head! Sudoku Your daily logic challenge Trending Quizzes See All Quizzes Where in America is That? Crisscross the U.S. by placing these famous landmarks. From Athena to Zeus: Basics of Greek Mythology Do you know which hero took a dip in the River Styx? Or what mysteries lurk inside the Labyrinth? Ultimate Animals Quiz What is a rattlesnake’s rattle made of? What animals can go over 180 miles an hour? Guess the Language! Quiz Can you recognize a language by its greeting? Best Picture Movie Quote Quiz Take this quiz or you may regret it. Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but soon, and for the rest of your life. American Civil Rights Movement Quiz Test your knowledge of Americans’ tumultuous fight to end racial segregation and discrimination. Name That Thing: Tools A handy quiz to test your tool acumen. The Dog Breed Quiz Find out which breed can outrun a cheetah, which breed was created by monks, and much more. Baking and Baked Goods Quiz You may have a sweet tooth, but how much do you know about baking and baked goods? Test your knowledge with this quiz. First Ladies of the United States Quiz They have been hostesses, helpers, advisers, gatekeepers, guardians, confidantes, and sometimes formidable powers behind... Featured Videos See All Videos What's the problem with an early spring? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. What's the problem with an early spring? Enrique Salmón explains the threat of biodiversity loss Why are rainforests so important? The problem with climate change explained by Bill McKibben The impact of human activities on climate change Explore Britannica History & Society The Israel-Palestine Conflict Explained 9 Worst Generals in History Science & Tech Do Lie Detectors Actually Work? History of Artificial Intelligence Biographies Deaths in 2025 Who Was the First Person to Survive Niagara Falls in a Barrel? Animals & Nature The Fastest Animals on Earth Working Like a Dog: 7 Animals with Jobs Geography & Travel The Largest Islands in the World Which Waters Do You Pass Through When You “Sail the Seven Seas”? Arts & Culture 10 Famous Clowns: From Comical to Creepy The Afterlife of Miguel de Cervantes Calculators Mortgage Payment Calculator Estimate your monthly mortgage payments with our free mortgage calculator. Account for interest rates, compound frequency and pay back schedule. Compound Interest Calculator Compounding means getting returns on your previous returns plus your initial investment. Learn how to grow your savings with our compound interest calculator. Percentage Increase Calculator Calculate the increase from one value to another with our free percentage increase calculator. Evaluate population growth, inflation, stock values and more. Retirement Income Calculator Are you on track for retirement? Use our free retirement calculator to help determine how much you'll need to save each year to retire at your desired age. Time Value of Money (TVM) Calculator The time value of money (TVM) principle asserts that the same amount of money is worth more now than in the future. Use our TVM calculator to estimate future value, present value & more. More From Britannica ProCon Award-winning ProCon promotes critical thinking, education, and informed citizenship by presenting the pro and con arguments to controversial issues in a straightforward, nonpartisan, freely accessible way. Britannica Money Discover all you need to know about retirement, investing, and household finance, without the jargon or agenda. Get reliable guidance, insight, and easy-to-understand explanations, written, edited, and verified to Britannica’s exacting standards. Advocacy for Animals Presenting Advocacy for Animals, a blog focused primarily on animal rights, wildlife conservation, environmental health and safety, and the legal and cultural issues related to these topics. This blog is a source of information and a call to action. It is meant to be a provocation and a stimulus to thought regarding humanity’s relationship with nonhuman animals. Alain Elkann Interviews Alain has been writing a weekly interview column for the Italian newspaper La Stampa since 1989. His interviews celebrate some of the best known and successful personalities of the present day. History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Our Sites Britannica Kids Merriam-Webster School & Library Melingo Britannica Books Escola Britannica English-Arabic Nglish Sp-En Translation Britannica Merch International Australia Brazil China India Japan Latin America United Kingdom Content & Editorial Encyclopaedia Britannica's Syndication API International Publishing Site Map New Articles Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
