URL: https://britannica.com/place/Pluto-dwarf-planet
Title: Pluto | Size, Moons, Temperature, & Facts | Britannica
H1: Pluto
H2: Basic astronomical data
H3: Is Pluto a planet? Who discovered Pluto? How far is Pluto from Sun? Is Pluto’s orbit circular or eccentric? Does Pluto have any moons?
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Pluto
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Pluto Table of Contents Introduction & Top Questions Basic astronomical data The atmosphere The surface and interior Pluto’s moons Discoveries of Pluto and its moons Origin of Pluto and its moons Pluto’s status as a solar system member References & Edit History Related Topics Images & Videos For Students Pluto summary Quizzes Astronomy and Space Quiz Space Odyssey Planets and the Earth’s Moon All About Astronomy Pluto Related Questions Is Pluto a planet? Is Pluto’s orbit circular or eccentric? Does Pluto have any moons? Read Next Christening Pluto’s Moons Wee Worlds: Our 5 (Official) Dwarf Planets 10 Important Dates in Pluto History Why Is Pluto No Longer a Planet? Timeline of the 2000s Discover How Many Countries Are There in the World? 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms All 81 References in Fall Out Boy’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained What Comes After Terabyte? Nostradamus and His Prophecies Inventors and Inventions of the Industrial Revolution Timeline of the 1990s Contents Science Astronomy Pluto Pluto as observed by the New Horizons spacecraft, July 13, 2015. (more) Pluto dwarf planet Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/place/Pluto-dwarf-planet Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites University of Central Florida Pressbooks - Pluto and Charon NASA Science - Pluto The Planets - Pluto Facts National Center for Biotechnology Information - PubMed Central - Pluto near the edge of chaos NASA - What is Pluto? Open Library Publishing Platform - Fanshawe College Astronomy - Pluto and Charon Space.com - Pluto: Everything you need to know about the dwarf planet The Nine Planets - Pluto Facts Khan Academy - The Pluto Controversy: What's a Planet, Anyway? International Astronomical Unit - Pluto and the Developing Landscape of Our Solar System Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Pluto - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Pluto - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Ask the Chatbot a Question Written by Tobias Chant Owen Professor of Astronomy, University of Hawaii at Manoa, Honolulu. Coauthor of The Planetary System; The Search for Life in the Universe; and numerous research articles. Tobias Chant Owen Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 21, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Top Questions Is Pluto a planet? In 2006 the International Astronomical Union (IAU) removed Pluto from the list of planets and classified it as a dwarf planet because of its small size, icy composition, and anomalous orbital characteristics. The IAU adopted this category to recognize the larger and more massive members with similar compositions and origins occupying the same orbital “neighborhood.” Who discovered Pluto? Amateur American astronomer Clyde Tombaugh found Pluto in the constellation Gemini on February 18, 1930. How far is Pluto from Sun? Pluto’s mean distance from the Sun is about 5.9 billion km (3.7 billion miles or 39.5 astronomical units). Is Pluto’s orbit circular or eccentric? Pluto’s orbit is more elongated, or eccentric, than any of the planetary orbits and more inclined (at 17.1°) to the ecliptic. In traveling its eccentric path around the Sun, Pluto varies in distance from 29.7 astronomical units, at its closest point to the Sun (perihelion), to 49.5 AU, at its farthest point (aphelion). Does Pluto have any moons? Pluto possesses five known moons. Charon is by far the largest, being fully half the size of Pluto. Pluto’s other four moons—Hydra, Nix, Kerberos, and Styx—are much smaller than Charon. All four are elongated and revolve around Pluto outside Charon’s path in nearly circular orbits and in the same orbital plane as Charon. Pluto, large, distant member of the solar system that formerly was regarded as the outermost and smallest planet. It also was considered the most recently discovered planet, having been found in 1930. In August 2006 the International Astronomical Union (IAU), the organization charged by the scientific community with classifying astronomical objects, voted to remove Pluto from the list of planets and give it the new classification of dwarf planet. The change reflects astronomers’ realization that Pluto is a large member of the Kuiper belt, a collection of debris of ice and rock left over from the formation of the solar system and now revolving around the Sun beyond Neptune’s orbit. (For the IAU’s distinction between planet and dwarf planet and further discussion of the change in Pluto’s classification, see planet.) Pluto is not visible in the night sky to the unaided eye. Its largest moon, Charon, is close enough in size to Pluto that it has become common to refer to the two bodies as a double system. Pluto is designated by the symbol ?. Pluto is named for the god of the underworld in Roman mythology (the Greek equivalent is Hades). It is so distant that the Sun’s light, which travels about 300,000 km (186,000 miles) per second, takes more than five hours to reach it. An observer standing on Pluto’s surface would see the Sun as an extremely bright star in the dark sky, providing Pluto on average 1/1,600 of the amount of sunlight that reaches Earth. Pluto’s surface temperature therefore is so cold that common gases such as nitrogen and carbon monoxide exist there as ices. Because of Pluto’s remoteness and small size, even the best telescopes on Earth and in Earth orbit could resolve little detail of its surface. Indeed, for decades, such basic information as its radius and mass had been difficult to determine. It was not until Pluto was visited by the U.S. spacecraft New Horizons, which flew by Pluto and its satellite Charon in July 2015, that many key questions about it and its environs were answered. Basic astronomical data Pluto’s mean distance from the Sun, about 5.9 billion km (3.7 billion miles or 39.5 astronomical units), gives it an orbit larger than that of the outermost planet, Neptune. (One astronomical unit [AU] is the average distance from Earth to the Sun—about 150 million km [93 million miles].) Its orbit, compared with those of the planets, is atypical in several ways. It is more elongated, or eccentric, than any of the planetary orbits and more inclined (at 17.1°) to the ecliptic, the plane of Earth’s orbit, near which the orbits of most of the planets lie. In traveling its eccentric path around the Sun, Pluto varies in distance from 29.7 AU, at its closest point to the Sun (perihelion), to 49.5 AU, at its farthest point (aphelion). Because Neptune orbits in a nearly circular path at 30.1 AU, Pluto is for a small part of each revolution actually closer to the Sun than is Neptune. Nevertheless, the two bodies will never collide, because Pluto is locked in a stabilizing 3:2 resonance with Neptune; i.e., it completes two orbits around the Sun in exactly the time it takes Neptune to complete three. This gravitational interaction affects their orbits such that they can never pass closer than about 17 AU. The last time Pluto reached perihelion occurred in 1989; for about 10 years before that time and again afterward, Neptune was more distant than Pluto from the Sun. Britannica Quiz Astronomy and Space Quiz Observations from Earth have revealed that Pluto’s brightness varies with a period of 6.3873 Earth days, which is now well established as its rotation period (sidereal day). Of the planets, only Mercury, with a rotation period of almost 59 days, and Venus, with 243 days, turn more slowly. Pluto’s axis of rotation is tilted at an angle of 120° from the perpendicular to the plane of its orbit, so that its north pole actually points 30° below the plane. (By convention, above the plane is taken to mean in the direction of Earth’s and the Sun’s north poles; below, in the opposite direction. For comparison, Earth’s north polar axis is tilted 23.5° away from the perpendicular, above its orbital plane.) Pluto thus rotates nearly on its side in a retrograde direction (opposite the direction of rotation of the Sun and most of the planets); an observer on its surface would see the Sun rise in the west and set in the east. Pluto and CharonComposite of enhanced colour images of Pluto (right) and Charon (left) taken by the New Horizons spacecraft.(more) Compared with the planets, Pluto is also anomalous in its physical characteristics. Pluto has a radius less than half that of Mercury; it is only about two-thirds the size of Earth’s Moon. Next to the outer planets—the giants Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune—it is strikingly tiny. When these characteristics are combined with what is known about its density and composition, Pluto appears to have more in common with the large icy moons of the outer planets than with any of the planets themselves. Its closest twin is Neptune’s moon Triton, which suggests a similar origin for these two bodies (see below Origin of Pluto and its moons). For additional orbital and physical data about Pluto, see the table. Basic data for Pluto *Time required for Pluto to return to the same position in the sky relative to the Sun as seen from Earth. **Smallness of deviation from sidereal day is due to Pluto's huge orbit. mean distance from Sun 5,910,000,000 km (39.5 AU) eccentricity of orbit 0.251 inclination of orbit to ecliptic 17.1° Plutonian year (sidereal period of revolution) 247.69 Earth years visual magnitude at mean opposition 15.1 mean synodic period* 366.74 Earth days mean orbital velocity 4.72 km/s radius 1,185 km mass 1.2 x 1022 kg mean density about 2 g/cm3 mean surface gravity 58 cm/s escape velocity 1.1 km/s rotation period (Plutonian sidereal day) 6.3873 Earth days (retrograde) Plutonian mean solar day** 6.3874 Earth days inclination of equator to orbit (obliquity) 120° mean surface temperature about 40 K (?387 °F, ?233 °C) surface pressure (near perihelion) about 10?5 bar number of known moons 5
