URL: https://britannica.com/biography/Pierre-Poilievre
Title: Pierre Poilievre | Canada, Biography, Beliefs, ‘Wacko’ Comment, & 2025 Election | Britannica
H1: Pierre Poilievre
H2: News • Early life and education Election to Parliament Elevation to Conservative Party leader and the 2025 snap election
H3: Who is Pierre Poilievre? When was Poilievre elected to the House of Commons? What positions did Poilievre hold under Prime Minister Stephen Harper? What led to Poilievre’s ejection from Parliament in 2024?
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Pierre Poilievre
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Pierre Poilievre Table of Contents Introduction & Top Questions Early life and education Election to Parliament Elevation to Conservative Party leader and the 2025 snap election References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Images Read Next 11 Architectural Wonders to Visit in Canada Canada: 10 Claims to Fame Discover Timeline of the 1990s Inventors and Inventions of the Industrial Revolution 5 Unbelievable Facts About Christopher Columbus 9 American Political Scandals All 81 References in Fall Out Boy’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained How Many Countries Are There in the World? The Death of Shakespeare Contents Politics, Law & Government World Leaders Other Politicians Canada's opposition leader Conservative Party leader Pierre Poilievre holding a press conference on Parliament Hill, December 16, 2024. (more) Pierre Poilievre Canadian politician Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/biography/Pierre-Poilievre Feedback Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Ask the Chatbot a Question Written by Fred Frommer Fred Frommer is a sports historian, author, and writer who has written for a host of national publications. Fred Frommer Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 29, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Quick Facts Born: June 3, 1979, Calgary, Alberta, Canada (age 45) (Show more) Title / Office: House of Commons (2004-), Canada (Show more) See all related content Top Questions Who is Pierre Poilievre? Pierre Poilievre is a Canadian politician and the leader of Canada’s Conservative Party. He is known for his populist politics and his acerbic and confrontational style. When was Poilievre elected to the House of Commons? Poilievre was elected to the House of Commons in 2004 at the age of 25, representing the Carleton district in Ottawa. What positions did Poilievre hold under Prime Minister Stephen Harper? Under Prime Minister Stephen Harper, Poilievre was named parliamentary secretary, minister of democratic reform, and then employment minister. What led to Poilievre’s ejection from Parliament in 2024? Poilievre was ejected from Parliament in 2024 for refusing to withdraw his comment that Prime Minister Justin Trudeau was a “wacko” for supporting British Columbia’s decriminalization of possession of small quantities of some hard drugs. News • Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race • Apr. 29, 2025, 6:15 PM ET (AP) ...(Show more) Carney wins Canadian election, while Conservative leader loses his seat in Parliament • Apr. 29, 2025, 7:27 AM ET (AP) The Latest: Canadians choose their leader in what’s become a referendum on Trump • Apr. 28, 2025, 10:10 PM ET (AP) It might be Carney vs. Poilievre to lead Canada, but Trump is unofficially on the ballot • Apr. 27, 2025, 7:37 AM ET (AP) Conservative Poilievre seemed poised to be Canada's next leader. Then Trump declared economic war • Apr. 21, 2025, 8:05 AM ET (AP) Show less Pierre Poilievre (born June 3, 1979, Calgary, Alberta, Canada) is a Canadian politician serving as the leader of Canada’s Conservative Party. Poilievre has sometimes been compared to U.S. Pres. Donald Trump for his populist politics and his acerbic and confrontational style. In 2025 he presided over one of the most dramatic electoral collapses in Canadian political history; in the space of four months, he went from being Canada’s presumptive prime minister in waiting to losing his own seat in Parliament. Early life and education Poilievre and his biological half brother, Patrick, were adopted by Marlene and Don Poilievre, both schoolteachers. Pierre Poilievre grew up in Calgary, playing sports such as hockey, football, and wrestling. He was raised in the Roman Catholic Church but has made little mention of his faith in speeches as an adult. His parents divorced when he was about 12 years old. One of his earliest exposures to politics was joining his mother at a Progressive Conservative meeting. He received a degree in international relations (2008) from the University of Calgary, where he was president of the college Conservative club. While there he won a $10,000 prize and a meeting with Prime Minister Jean Chrétien, of the Liberal Party, for an essay on what he would do if he ever became the country’s leader himself. In it Poilievre stressed freedom and low taxes—two cornerstones of his philosophy as a politician. Election to Parliament In 2004, at the age of 25, Poilievre was elected to the House of Commons, representing the Carleton district in Ottawa. He quickly drew a following with his pugnacious debating style, and his ascent through the Conservative ranks was rapid. The Conservative Party took power in 2006, and within two years Poilievre had been named parliamentary secretary to Prime Minister Stephen Harper. He continued his rise, earning an appointment to Harper’s cabinet, first as minister of democratic reform (2013–15) and then as employment minister (2015). In 2017 he married Anaida Galindo; they have two children. Elevation to Conservative Party leader and the 2025 snap election Poilievre was elected leader of the Conservative Party in 2022, after championing a “Freedom Convoy” of truck drivers who had converged in Ottawa to rail against COVID-19 lockdowns. Along the way his playbook included attacking both the media and Liberal Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. In April 2024 Speaker Greg Fergus ejected Poilievre from Parliament for the day after he called Trudeau “this wacko prime minister” for supporting a “wacko policy”; namely, British Columbia’s decriminalization of possession of small amounts of some hard drugs in an attempt to reduce overdose-related deaths. Before removing Poilievre, Fergus requested that he withdraw the comment, deeming it “unparliamentary language.” Poilievre offered to replace “wacko” with “extremist” or “radical,” and the rest of the Conservative caucus ultimately followed their leader out. Trudeau’s support had been in decline for some years, and the termination of a confidence-and-supply agreement with the New Democratic Party in September 2024 had left his minority government on the verge of collapse. With elections scheduled to be held before October 2025, the Conservatives held a commanding lead in public polling, an advantage that became more pronounced in December 2024 after the resignation of Trudeau’s finance minister, Chrystia Freeland. Freeland had expressed doubts about Trudeau’s ability to handle Trump, who had vowed to enact a stunning 25 percent tariff on Canadian goods upon his return to the U.S. presidency in January 2025. With Liberal support in free fall and allies calling upon Trudeau to step down, on January 6, 2025, Trudeau announced his resignation. At this point, polling suggested a near-certain landslide victory for the Conservatives. Although a majority of Canadians expressed an unfavorable view of Poilievre, he seemed poised to become Canada’s next prime minister. As former central banker Mark Carney emerged as the clear favorite to succeed Trudeau, however, the political winds shifted. Carney easily won the Liberal leadership election, and after he was sworn in as prime minister, Carney called for a snap election to be held on April 28. Support for Poilievre was already collapsing, and the Conservative campaign was not helped by an apparent rift between Poilievre and Ontario premier Doug Ford. When Canadians went to the polls, the Conservatives significantly improved on their 2021 performance with a gain of more than 20 seats, but they fell well short of victory. Carney, leading his party to a remarkable political comeback, won a fourth consecutive government for the Liberals. Poilievre vowed to remain Conservative leader, despite the fact that he lost his own seat in Parliament. Fred Frommer
