URL: https://premium.britannica.com/premium-membership
Title: Britannica Premium Membership - Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
H1: 
H2: Trust Your Source Membership Options Britannica Premium Subscriber Benefits Unlimited Access to Trusted Content 1768 First Edition: Digitized Plus, all your favorite features of Britannica.com Upgrade and Save!
H3: Britannica Premium Monthly Britannica Premium Annual Britannica Family Bundle
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Monthly Annual Save $50 and get digital access to Britannica Premium and Britannica Kids Are you a student?      Britannica Money Britannica Explains Video Series On This Day Series
Body: Premium Membership Kids Membership Family Bundle Merriam-Webster Letter from the Editor Premium Membership Kids Membership Family Bundle Merriam-Webster Menu Trust Your Source Britannica Premium is your destination for fact-checked answers and information Membership Options Britannica Premium Monthly $8.99 Monthly FREE TRIAL $8.99/Month MOST POPULAR Britannica Premium Annual $74.95 Annually FREE TRIAL Subscribe BEST DEAL Britannica Family Bundle $99.00 Annually Save $50 and get digital access to Britannica Premium and Britannica Kids SUBSCRIBE Are you a student? Get our special academic rate for Britannica Premium! Britannica Premium Subscriber Benefits Unlimited, ad-free access to the full Britannica database of information The premier online learning resource for professionals, college students, and lifelong learners Thousands of articles and scholarly resources written by trusted and world-renowned experts Complete access to our educational media library of images, podcasts, and videos Cancel anytime *Subscriptions are for personal use or use within a single household. Games not included and will continue to include ads. BRITANNICA MONEY NO ADS FULL CONTENT ACCESS DIGITAL FIRST EDITION Unlimited Access to Trusted Content Britannica is continuously reviewed and updated, with articles written by experts and vetted by fact-checkers. 1768 First Edition: Digitized Our famed encyclopedia — first published in 1768 but all digital today — remains the oldest continuously published and revised work in the English language. Access the world’s original book of answers. Curated collections of our first edition book are now available online through a Britannica membership. Plus, all your favorite features of Britannica.com WORLD-RENOWNED CONTRIBUTORS 120 Nobel Prize Winners 100+ Heads of State & World Activists 5 U.S. Presidents 50+ Journalists, sports figures, scholars, artists, and business leaders CURATED CONTENT Britannica Money Britannica Explains Video Series On This Day Series Upgrade and Save! Britannica Family Bundle Benefits Save $50 by bundling Britannica Premium and Britannica Kids and get unlimited, ad-free access across both products Access thousands of expertly curated articles and scholarly resources Discover unique reading levels that fit everyone in the family Unlock the special Britannica Kids Activities Corner featuring downloadable, hands-on activities, games, and curriculum-based lessons Get homework help with citation tools and quick facts on popular people and topics Cancel at any time SUBSCRIBE *Subscriptions are for personal use or use within a single household. Britannica Games not included and will continue to include ads. Follow us on Social Facebook X Instagram Pinterest Purchase a Membership Premium Membership Kids Membership Britannica Family Bundle Merriam-Webster Unabridged Britannica Gift Subscriptions About Britannica Corporate Website Diversity Britannica Books Website Britannica Merch Privacy Policy Terms of Use Copyright 2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.. All rights reserved.
