URL: https://britannica.com/on-this-day
Title: On This Day - What Happened Today In History | Britannica
H1: This Day in History: May 2
H2: Featured Event Featured Biography More Events On This Day TIME CAPSULE
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: 
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home On This Day This Day in History: May 2 What Happened On Your Bday? Go to Today's Date Featured Event 1939 Lou Gehrig's 2,130-game streak ended On this day in 1939, New York Yankee great Lou Gehrig, the “Iron Horse” of American baseball, ended his streak of consecutive games played (2,130), setting a record that stood until 1995, when it was broken by Cal Ripken, Jr. Read our list of the 10 greatest baseball players of all time AP Featured Biography Catherine II empress of Russia born May 2, 1729 Szczecin, Poland (Born on this day) died November 17, 1796 (aged 67) Pushkin, Russia Pictures from History—Universal Images Group/Getty Images 1975 David Beckham British athlete 1972 Dwayne Johnson American professional wrestler and actor 1921 Satyajit Ray Indian film director 1892 Manfred, baron von Richthofen German aviator 1860 Theodor Herzl Austrian Zionist leader See All Biographies On This Day More Events On This Day 2015 Princess Charlotte Elizabeth Diana of Cambridge, the second child of Prince William, duke of Cambridge, and Catherine, duchess of Cambridge, was born in London. Sort fact from fiction in our English royalty quiz © Tolga Akmen—Anadolu Agency/Getty Images 2011 Osama bin Laden—founder of the militant Islamist organization al-Qaeda and mastermind of numerous terrorist attacks, notably the September 11, 2001, attacks—was killed by U.S. forces in Abbottabad, Pakistan. Watch a video of U.S. President Barack Obama announcing the death of Osama bin Laden United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia (U.S. v. Moussaoui) 2000 U.S. President Bill Clinton announced that highly accurate GPS would be made available to the public; the satellite signals had previously been degraded for nonmilitary use. Learn how GPS satellites guide airplanes, cars, and even cell phones Courtesy of the Lockheed Martin Corporation 1997 British Labour Party leader Tony Blair became prime minister of the United Kingdom; he was the youngest person to hold the office since 1812. Test your knowledge of British culture and politics © Crown copyright 1946 An attempted prison escape by six inmates at Alcatraz resulted in two days of violent fighting, which became known as the Battle of Alcatraz. © Fabio Formaggio/Dreamstime.com 1935 The peasants of Luzon, Philippines, rose up in arms against oppressive land tenancy laws. Sort fact from fiction in our quiz about Southeast Asia © Skip Nall/Corbis RF 1921 Bengali director Satyajit Ray, who brought Indian cinema to world recognition with the Apu Trilogy, was born in Calcutta (Kolkata). Sort fact from fiction in our Bollywood quiz Camera Press/Globe Photos 1920 The Negro National League (NNL), founded by Rube Foster, held its first game; the NNL was considered the first successful professional baseball league for African Americans, and notable players included Cool Papa Bell and Satchel Paige. How much do you know about baseball? RLPM Collection/Alamy 1903 American pediatrician Benjamin Spock—who wrote a number of influential works on child rearing, notably Common Sense Book of Baby and Child Care (1946), which sold more than 50 million copies worldwide—was born. Do you know these famous doctors? Evening Standard/Hulton Archive/Getty Images 1892 Manfred, baron von Richthofen (the “Red Baron”), Germany's top aviator and leading ace in World War I, was born in Breslau, Germany (now Wroc?aw, Poland). Test your knowledge of World War I Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. 1889 Menilek II of Ethiopia signed the Treaty of Wichale with Italy, granting it territory in northern Ethiopia in exchange for money and weaponry. 1803 The United States purchased the Louisiana Territory from France at a rate of less than three cents per acre for 828,000 square miles (2,144,520 square km), which soon proved to be a tremendous bargain. How much do you know about early American history? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. 1611 The King James Version of the Bible was first published. Discover the misprints and errors in early editions of the King James Bible Rare Book and Manuscript Library/University of Pennsylvania 1536 Henry VIII had his second wife, Anne Boleyn, committed to the Tower of London on charges of adultery and incest; although likely innocent, she was later convicted and beheaded. Take our quiz about Henry VIII and his wives © Photos.com/Getty Images 1519 Renaissance artist Leonardo da Vinci—whose works, notably the painting Mona Lisa, were among the most famous in the world—died in Cloux, France. Watch an overview of the life of Leonardo da Vinci Courtesy of Biblioteca Ambrosiana, Milan History at your fingertips Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. TIME CAPSULE From Britannica Book Of The Year May 2, 1949 Rules to govern "fair income" rent increases under the Housing and Rent Act of 1949 were issued by federal housing expediter Tighe E. Woods. SHOW ANOTHER EVENT Connect with Britannica Facebook X YouTube Instagram
