URL: https://kids.britannica.com
Title: Britannica Kids
H1: 
H2: Explore Fundamentals Explore Britannica Kids Explore Britannica Students Explore Britannica Scholars
H3: Browse Britannica Kids Browse Britannica Students
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Britannica’s new platform provides content designed and written specifically for early learners.
Body: Switch Level Kids Students Scholars About Us Level Kids Students Scholars Fundamentals NEW 7-day free trial Login × Fundamentals PreK-Grade 2 Kids Up to Grade 5 Students Grade 6-8 Scholars Grade 9 and Up Britannica’s new platform provides content designed and written specifically for early learners. Creating a more engaging and fun learning experience for students, the activities in Britannica Fundamentals align with the content areas children learn in the classroom. From language and literacy to geography and mathematics, Britannica Fundamentals supports classroom curriculum while also building digital literacy. Explore Fundamentals Read Explore Play Create Explore Britannica Kids Articles Images & Video Biographies Animal Kingdom World Atlas Dictionary Browse Britannica Kids A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Explore Britannica Students At a Glance World Capitals In most countries, the capital is the headquarters of the national government. Read the Article At A Glance Inventors People who think of new machines or ways of doing things are known as inventors. Read the Article Articles Images & Video Biographies Dictionary World Atlas Compare Countries Browse Britannica Students A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Explore Britannica Scholars Spotlight When Are Volcanoes Safe? Volcanoes can be harmful even when they’re not spouting lava. Volcanoes have four states: active (has erupted in the past 10,000 years), erupting (is experiencing an eruption), dormant (has the potential to erupt again), and extinct (has not erupted in over 10,000 years). While extinct volcanoes aren’t threatening, the others are unpredictable and may pose danger. See also: volcano, Mauna Loa On This Day Death in Abbottabad In 2011 Osama bin Laden—founder of the militant Islamist organization al-Qaeda and mastermind of numerous terrorist attacks, notably the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks—was killed by U.S. forces in Pakistan. Read More Articles Images & Video Biographies Dictionary World Atlas Compare Countries About Us Contact Us Privacy Notice Terms of Use Diversity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. By continuing to use this site, you consent to the terms of our cookie policy, which can be found in our Privacy Notice. ×
