URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Politics-Law-Government
Title: Politics, Law & Government Portal | Britannica
H1: Politics, Law & Government
H2: Featured content, May 02, 2025 Politics, Law & Government Quizzes Politics, Law & Government Videos Politics, Law & Government Subcategories
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Politics, Law & Government Politics, Law & Government The world today is divided territorially into more than 190 countries, each of which possesses a national government that claims to exercise sovereignty and seeks to compel obedience to its will by its citizens. Governments can be classified in any number of ways. For example, they might be classified by the number of rulers, thus distinguishing government by one (as in a monarchy or a tyranny) from government by the few (in an aristocracy or oligarchy) and from government by the many (as in a democracy). Governments can also be classified by mode of succession; for example, ascension to governmental leadership may follow the rules of hereditary succession, or it may be determined through elections or by force. Governments also vary in terms of the laws and rules of conduct that each political entity follows. Browse Subcategories Banking & Business Businesspeople & Entrepreneurs Economics & Economic Systems International Relations Law, Crime & Punishment Military Politics & Political Systems World Leaders Featured content, May 02, 2025 Have Any U.S. Presidents Decided Not to Run For a Second Term? Find out which American presidents have decided against running for reelection. Who Was the First Woman to Run for President of the United States? Before women could vote, Victoria Woodhull ran for U.S. president. 9 U.S. Presidents with the Most Vetoes Hail to the chief. The Surprisingly Disorderly History of the U.S. Presidential Succession Order Who takes over and when? constitutional law Constitutional law, the body of rules, doctrines, and practices that govern the operation of political communities. In modern... fascism Fascism, political ideology and mass movement that dominated many parts of central, southern, and eastern Europe between... police Police, body of officers representing the civil authority of government. Police typically are responsible for maintaining... crime Crime, the intentional commission of an act usually deemed socially harmful or dangerous and specifically defined, prohibited,... Politics, Law & Government Quizzes Voting for the U.S. President: A Quiz Test your knowledge of how voters voted in U.S. presidential elections across history. Quiz content provided by Women’s History: Leaders Quiz Women have been political leaders for centuries. Test what you know about their accomplishments with this quiz. U.S. Constitutional History Quiz Who is considered the father of the U.S. Constitution? Which English philosopher greatly influenced the Constitution? Find... Global Governance Quiz Intergovernmental cooperation is essential to resolve issues of global importance. That cooperation is often made possible... U.S. Presidential History Quiz The phrase “New Frontier” is associated with which U.S. president? Who was “first in war, first in peace, and first in the... U.S. Presidential Code Names Quiz Every U.S. president is assigned a code name by the Secret Service. This quiz will show you a code name along with two presidents’... 43 Questions About Politics (Mostly in the United States) Compiled from Britannica’s Quizzes This quiz gathers together questions from Britannica’s quizzes about politics, law, and government. It includes a lot of... Weird U.S. Presidents Quiz What animal did Calvin Coolidge grant a presidential pardon to? Whose chair did John Adams and Thomas Jefferson vandalize... 12 Quotes from U.S. Presidential Debates: A Quiz Debates have been a high-profile component of U.S. presidential elections since at least 1960. How well do you know what... The Road to the Presidency Quiz The votes are in, and it’s time for another quiz about U.S. Presidents! How did the country’s leaders earn their positions... Politics, Law & Government Videos Hear about the Thomas Lubanga case, the first trial conducted by the International Criminal Court in 2012 What diversification means (and why it matters) Is there a difference between a suffragist and a suffragette? How much do you need to save for retirement? Understand David Ricardo's principle of comparative advantage Understand the importance of marketing and learn about loyalty cards, positioning, and other aspects of marketing, including an instance of when marketing fails What to know about BNPL: Buy Now, Pay Later The presidency of James Monroe and the famous Monroe Doctrine Know about Queen Anne, monarch of Great Britain and Ireland Never Miss a Day in History Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers delivered right to your inbox. Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Politics, Law & Government Subcategories Banking & Business This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles wage and salary economics insurance property tax Businesspeople & Entrepreneurs This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles J.P. Morgan American financier Nawaz Sharif prime minister of Pakistan Donald Trump 45th and 47th president of the United States Economics & Economic Systems Economic system, any of the ways in which humankind has arranged for its material provisioning. One would think that there would be a great variety of such systems, corresponding to the many cultural arrangements that have characterized human society. Articles Great Depression economy economic system bank finance International Relations International relations is the study of the relations of states with each other and with international organizations and certain subnational entities (e.g., bureaucracies, political parties, and interest groups). It is related to a number of other academic disciplines, including political science, geography, history, economics, law, sociology, psychology, and philosophy. Articles human rights international relations politics functionalism international organizations Law, Crime & Punishment This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles crime law canon law religion international law Military This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles navy military force war college educational institution Army of Tennessee Confederate army during American Civil War Politics & Political Systems This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles democracy Marxism election political science World Leaders This general category includes a selection of more specific topics. Articles Alexander the Great king of Macedonia presidency of the United States of America United States government David Cameron prime minister of United Kingdom Home Politics, Law & Government History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
