URL: https://britannica.com/money/private-vs-government-economic-data
Title: Comparing Economic Data Sources: Private vs. Government | Britannica Money
H1: Private economic reports: Looking beyond Uncle Sam’s data
H2: Key Points Did the government deflate my inflation report? Which private economic reports should I keep on my radar? The bottom line References
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Written by Fact-checked by ISM Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) and ISM Services PMI. Retail Sales ADP National Employment Report. Automatic Data Processing, Inc. Employment Situation Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey initial claims Consumer Sentiment Index and Consumer Confidence Index. Conference Board Leading Economic Index (LEI). Redbook and National Retail Federation (NRF) reports. Retail Sales Consumer Price Index Challenger Job Cut Report. Initial Claims ShadowStats.com. World Gold Council.
Body: History & SocietyScience & TechBiographiesAnimals & NatureGeography & TravelArts & CultureProConGames & QuizzesVideosOn This DayOne Good FactDictionary Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Health & Medicine Science Technology Browse Biographies Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual ArtsCompanionsDemystifiedImage GalleriesInfographicsListsPodcastsSpotlightSummariesTop Questions#WTFactBritannica Kids Household Finance Investing Trading Retirement Companies Biographies Finance & the Economy Table of Contents Introduction Did the government deflate my inflation report? Which private economic reports should I keep on my radar? The bottom line References Read More What housing market data can indicate about the broader economy Economic cycles: Investing through boom and bust Consumer spending: Here are the top reports to follow Table Of Contents Investing Economic Data Private economic reports: Looking beyond Uncle Sam’s data Second opinions aren’t just for medical info. Print Cite Share Written byKarl Montevirgen Karl Montevirgen Karl Montevirgen is a professional freelance writer who specializes in the fields of finance, cryptomarkets, content strategy, and the arts. Karl works with several organizations in the equities, futures, physical metals, and blockchain industries. He holds FINRA Series 3 and Series 34 licenses in addition to a dual MFA in critical studies/writing and music composition from the California Institute of the Arts. Fact-checked byDoug Ashburn Doug Ashburn Doug is a Chartered Alternative Investment Analyst who spent more than 20 years as a derivatives market maker and asset manager before “reincarnating” as a financial media professional a decade ago. Table of Contents Introduction Did the government deflate my inflation report? Which private economic reports should I keep on my radar? The bottom line References Read More What housing market data can indicate about the broader economy Economic cycles: Investing through boom and bust Consumer spending: Here are the top reports to follow Table Of Contents Open full sized image The government's data reports aren't the only ones to examine. © Jess rodriguez/stock.adobe.com When it comes to understanding the current state of the economy and its future forecasts, the U.S. government’s reporting agencies can provide a lot of information. But should you rely solely on Uncle Sam’s economic acumen? This question is not so much a matter of trust, but rather, one of due diligence and practical sense. Why get one opinion when you can have two or more? Hence, the value of reading economic data published by private entities. Not only can you compare and contrast private and government economic reports; you can also use them to get a multi-angle view of economic conditions. Sometimes these additional reports will support or complement government data. Every now and then, they may even challenge, question, or oppose Uncle Sam’s take on things. Key Points Private economic data can complement government economic reports by offering a broader view of the economy. Some reports, like ShadowStats’ inflation readings, can directly challenge how certain economic conditions are officially presented. Industry-specific reports can provide more detailed and nuanced insights into specific sectors and industries. Did the government deflate my inflation report? Here’s an example of how private data can complement “official” data. Let’s suppose that, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the current annual Consumer Price Index (CPI) is at 3.67%. Okay. Well, those are the facts, and facts are facts, right? Sort of. Maybe. Some private analytics firms, such as ShadowStats (see below), track alternative inflation metrics over time, based on the “fact” that CPI calculations were changed twice—once in the 1980s and again in the 1990s—in ways that tended to underreport inflation. According to ShadowStats, a 2023 consumer inflation reading of 3.67% would be closer to 8% using 1990s calculations, and a whopping 12% by the 1980s formula. So, out of 3.67%, 8%, or 12%, which figure might be more … “factual”? Ultimately, it depends on what you’re trying to measure. If, for example, you want to measure next year’s Social Security cost of living adjustment (COLA), or the interest rate on an I bond, you’ll want the official government measure. If you’re trying to forecast your expenses in retirement, you might be interested in some (private) real-world data. Which private economic reports should I keep on my radar? There’s a huge list, but some of the more common or relevant ones you might come across are listed below. Some will complement government economic reports; others can help you fill in the gaps. ISM Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) and ISM Services PMI. Published by the Institute for Supply Management (ISM), these reports measure the health of the manufacturing and services sectors. Manufacturing focuses on factories and production (cars, machines, electronics, etc.), while the services report focuses on things like banks, restaurants, and other businesses that don’t directly manufacture products. These reports can complement your reading of the Federal Reserve Board’s Industrial Production report. It can also give you a less direct angle toward viewing gross domestic product (GDP) and the U.S. Census Bureau’s Retail Sales report. ADP National Employment Report. Released by Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (ADP), this monthly report gives you a big-picture view of private non-farm employment. This can complement the government’s Employment Situation, Job Openings and Labor Turnover Survey (JOLTS), and weekly initial claims (for unemployment) reports. Consumer Sentiment Index and Consumer Confidence Index. These reports measure how consumers feel about the economy in general, their current financial health, and their sentiment toward spending in the coming months. Because consumer confidence precedes—and accompanies—spending, and consumer spending makes up two-thirds of the economy, according to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), these confidence indexes can give you a partial glimpse into future consumer spending. Conference Board Leading Economic Index (LEI). In economics, a leading indicator is one that turns up or down before the economy does. Put simply, this index is designed to predict turns in the business cycle. LEI data may be complemented by official housing data such as housing starts and building permits. It may also hint at future GDP reports. Redbook and National Retail Federation (NRF) reports. These reports offer insight into chain store sales, forecasts, trends, and overall performance in the retail industry. They paint a picture of consumer sentiment and spending habits, particularly during key shopping seasons. Both reports can provide a different angle to view the government’s Retail Sales report, while the NRF reports, with their insights into pricing trends, can add a dimension to the current Consumer Price Index reading. Challenger Job Cut Report. This is a monthly report by Challenger, Gray & Christmas on the number of announced corporate layoffs. Published a few days before the monthly jobs report, the Challenger Job Cut Report can be viewed as preliminary data. It can also be a leading indicator for the weekly Initial Claims (for unemployment) report. Want to dig deeper? Some reports fall further out of the mainstream, but are quite popular among active traders. ShadowStats.com. This site provides two alternate inflation Consumer Price Index (CPI) readings in addition to the current one released by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. The two alternates are based on 1980s and 1990s CPI calculations. Reading ShadowStats against government inflation reports like the CPI, Producer Price Index (PPI), and even the Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE) reports can give you a very different view of inflation and how it’s officially reported. World Gold Council. The World Gold Council (WGC) is an industry group that collects and releases analytical insights on the gold industry, from mining and production to central bank purchases. If you’re looking to analyze the macroeconomic environment in terms of fiscal and monetary policy in relation to “sound money” (as precious metals traders tend to view the gold market), this is one source you might want to check out. The bottom line When it comes to measuring the health of the economy, having multiple “doctors’ opinions” can sometimes be more informative than relying on just one. That’s what makes private economic data reports so important: They can give you a more multi-angled perspective on certain aspects of the economy and can balance out the data generated by government reports. So if you’re a trader or investor who’s monitoring the economy to inform your market decisions, it’s important to consider both sources of info. When it comes to economic reports, less is certainly not more. References Alternate Inflation Charts | shadowstats.com The Challenger Report | challengergray.com About UsPrivacy PolicyTerms & Conditions © 2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
