URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Entertainment-Pop-Culture
Title: Entertainment & Pop Culture Portal | Britannica
H1: Entertainment & Pop Culture
H2: Featured content, May 02, 2025 Entertainment & Pop Culture Quizzes Entertainment & Pop Culture Videos Entertainment & Pop Culture Subcategories
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Entertainment & Pop Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Entertainment and leisure activities have been a part of culture in one form or another since the ancient times. Dance performances, live music, and storytelling have a long tradition throughout history, even as the styles and available methods of delivery have shifted dramatically. Browse Subcategories Actors Comic Strips & Superheroes Dance Entertainment Awards & Festivals Food Leisure & Nightlife Movies Movie, TV & Stage Directors Music, Classical Music, Contemporary Genres Music Theory & Compositions Musical Instruments Television & Radio Theater Movie, TV & Stage Development & Production Featured content, May 02, 2025 What’s the Difference Between Whiskey and Whisky? What About Scotch, Bourbon, and Rye? Well, when whiskey, or whisky, or Scotch, or bourbon, or rye are in a name, it can tell you a lot about the spirit. 11 Famous Movie Monsters Ghosts, ghouls, and things that go bump in the night. 7 Delicious Fruits That Made Their Way to California (and How They Did It) How many have you tried? How Was Instant Ramen Invented? After World War II, Japan suffered from widespread food shortages, so Momofuku Ando resolved to come up with a nutritious,... tragedy Tragedy, branch of drama that treats in a serious and dignified style the sorrowful or terrible events encountered or caused... acting Acting, the performing art in which movement, gesture, and intonation are used to realize a fictional character for the stage,... dramatic literature Dramatic literature, the texts of plays that can be read, as distinct from being seen and heard in performance. The term... Elizabeth Patterson Bonaparte Elizabeth Patterson Bonaparte was one of America’s first international celebrities, known for her fashionable clothing, witty... Entertainment & Pop Culture Quizzes Musical Forms and Styles What is the name for a hybrid of rap and son music? In what country did lieder originate? From blues to mariachi,... Men of Musical Composition From Trout to The Well-Tempered Clavier, test your knowledge of Mozart, Pyotr Tchaikovsky, and other men... Composers and Songwriters What musical group wrote the first "rock opera"? Who wrote the hit song "Fingertips, Part 2"? From Peer Gynt to... Musicology Yodeling is most closely associated with what type of geographical region? What is the name for a series of notes? Scale... A Study of Music In classical music, what would you call a woman with a very high singing voice? Test your smarts in this study of music. Test Your Instrument Knowledge Which instrument is most closely related to the accordion? From the banjo to the saxophone, "reed" between the lines of this... Instruments Is a harpsichord a keyboard instrument? What is the higher-pitched version of a flute called? Test your knowledge of musical... Instruments: From Carillons to Electric Guitars From the carillion to the electric guitar, see if the bells in your head ring to the sound of these musical instruments. Pop Music: From Backstreet to Main Street In pop music, which instruments are recorded first? What continent’s music has most influenced America’s? Test your knowledge... Come Together From U2 and the Jonas Brothers to Led Zeppelin and The Beatles, test if your smarts can "Come Together" in this study of... Entertainment & Pop Culture Videos The chemistry behind the perfect grilled cheese sandwich Catch a performance of Javanese gamelan music by a man playing the bonang How to make elderberry jelly Culinary and medicinal uses of chervil Watch and hear a person playing the mridangam drum of the Carnatic music tradition German music throughout history Hear about Chuno, a traditional Andean freeze-dried potato dish, also the effect of climate change on the drying process of the food The ancient tradition of Vietnamese water puppetry Watch and listen: How Auto-Tune changes your voice Never Miss a Day in History Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers delivered right to your inbox. Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Entertainment & Pop Culture Subcategories Actors Acting is a performing art that involves much more than just being able to cry on command. Actors exercise supreme control over their voice, body, and facial movements so as to effectively and believably convey the emotional experience of the characters they represent. Although theatrical productions, television, and movies each carry unique technical demands for the actor, skilled actors can move from one medium to another without a diminution of talent, as is borne out by celebrated actors such as Laurence Olivier, Judi Dench, Dustin Hoffman, Meryl Streep, and Viola Davis. Articles Denzel Washington American actor Angelina Jolie American actress Sir Henry Irving British actor and theatrical manager Comic Strips & Superheroes Spider-Man, Batman, Wonder Woman, Iron Man: in the early 21st century, superheroes such as these rose to staggering global prominence. Movies featuring characters from Marvel Comics or DC Comics regularly drew in high global box office earnings, and the likenesses of these characters could easily be spotted adorning clothing, toys, backpacks, and more. Prior to the rise of modern comic books, their precursor, the comic strip, held court. Early comic strips were produced in Europe before the form began appearing in American magazines in the late 19th century. In 1933 the first true comic books were released. Five years later, DC Comics introduced Superman, the character who truly launched the superhero genre. Articles Captain America fictional character Aquaman fictional character the Avengers fictional superhero team Dance The world of dance is expansive and covers a wide variety of styles and forms, encompassing tap dancing, ballet, modern dance, line dances, and much more. Dance is a universal language that can communicate emotions directly and sometimes more powerfully than words. Articles George Balanchine Russian-American choreographer Agnes de Mille American dancer and choreographer Benjamin Millepied French dancer and choreographer Entertainment Awards & Festivals There may be no business like show business, but that doesn't mean that the people of show biz wouldn't like to be recognized with an award every once in a while. Honors like the Academy Awards, Golden Globes, Emmys, and Tonys recognize outstanding work in film, television, and theater, whereas honors such as the Grammy Awards and the Juno Awards celebrate excellence in music. Additionally, annual film festivals around the world honor exceptional works and performances with awards such as the Cannes film festival's Palme d'Or and the Berlin International Film Festival's Golden Bear. Music festivals such as the Montreux Jazz Festival (in Switzerland) and Lollapalooza (in Chicago) feature performances by a variety of artists and groups. Articles Golden Globe Award entertainment award Academy Award motion-picture award Juno Awards Canadian music award Food The necessity of food for survival is something that all humans have in common, but the trends of diet and food consumption can vary considerably from region to region. Find out more about the ingredients, dishes, and drinks that fuel people around the world. Articles fat and oil processing chemistry baking cooking distilled spirit alcoholic beverage Leisure & Nightlife When it comes to free time, everyone has his or her own activity of choice. While some may like to repose with a nice game of bridge, poker, or chess, others may find bungee jumping or bullfighting to be more engaging, and still others would rather opt for hiking or archery. Luckily, there's no shortage of leisure activities available for those who have the time, resources, and inclination to pursue them. Articles Olympic Games athletics bridge card game Movies There's always been a certain sense of magic surrounding the movies. Good movies are remarkably effective at conveying drama and evoking emotion, and they allow spectators to immerse themselves in the world of the film. Emerging at the end of the 19th century, this art form became one of the most popular and influential media and was perhaps the first truly mass form of entertainment. Articles Dardenne brothers Belgian filmmakers West Side Story film by Robbins and Wise [1961] film art and medium Movie, TV & Stage Directors invisible" to the audience in plays, shows, and movies (Alfred Hitchcock and his film cameos being one notable exception), they play an important role by controlling the evolution of the theatrical or dramatic performance. When there are actors involved, the director often oversees and shapes their performances as well. Although the auteur theory holds that the director is the major creative force in a performance, the role of the director actually varies a great deal, not only according to the medium in question but also according to the extent to which he works with actors. Articles Kathryn Bigelow American director Sarah Polley Canadian actor, director, writer, and producer Lina Wertmüller Italian film director Music, Classical Carmen"). Articles La traviata opera by Verdi Giuseppe Verdi Italian composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart Austrian composer Music, Contemporary Genres Hey, what's that sound? Music pervades many aspects of contemporary everyday life; it appears in commercials, blares from speakers in stores and restaurants, accompanies commuters on the way to work, and energizes gym-goers when their motivation is flagging. Music festivals such as Lollapalooza (in Chicago) and the Sziget Festival (in Budapest) attract enormous crowds by featuring an extensive lineup of musicians over several days. Today's music can be divided into any number of categories and subcategories, encompassing genres such as pop, jazz, rock, alternative, country, electronic, rap, and much more. Articles Alicia Keys American musician Tim Rice English lyricist Neil Young Canadian musician and filmmaker Music Theory & Compositions sound strong and driving rather than leisurely and soothing? The answer can be found by turning to music theory, the study of the concepts and compositional methods involved in the creation of music. Music theory examines musical qualities such as timbre, tone, pitch, and texture, as well as compositional elements such as rhythm, dynamics, tempo, and more. Articles Adagio for Strings work by Barber cantata music Finlandia tone poem for orchestra by Sibelius Musical Instruments Not everyone is gifted with an exceptional singing voice. That's where instruments come in! The principal types of musical instruments are percussion, stringed, keyboard, wind, and electronic instruments. Musical instruments have been used since the earliest times, and modern technology has in many cases simplified or improved the construction of instruments, while mechanization has made possible the mass production of instruments of all kinds. It remains true, however, that the production of an instrument of the highest quality still demands the highest degree of individual skill. Articles flute musical instrument trumpet musical instrument bell musical instrument Television & Radio Is it true that video killed the radio star? When broadcast radio came into prominence early in the 20th century, it delighted the public by providing news and entertainment with an immediacy that had been unimaginable beforehand. Radio developed into the first electronic mass medium, but broadcast radio's popularity was eclipsed by television, which appeared about 1945. Television, which was originally conceived as a potential medium for education and interpersonal communication, ultimately evolved into a vibrant broadcast medium that offered a diverse slate of news and entertainment to people all over the world. By the early 21st century, the Internet made it possible to watch TV anywhere, anytime, on small portable devices. Articles National Broadcasting Co., Inc. American corporation Motorola, Inc. American company Philips Dutch manufacturer Theater There's no business like show business! Nothing quite matches the immediacy and electricity of a live dramatic performance, a fact which may help explain why the art form has persevered from its ancient origins up through the present day. During the 20th century, live theater demonstrated an unexpected tenacity in the face of tough competition from film, television, video, the Internet, and other media. Articles Lindsay and Crouse American dramatists Chinese performing arts Japanese performing arts Movie, TV & Stage Development & Production Before the director can call “Action!” for the first time, there’s a lot that must be done to get a movie, television show, or theatrical production ready for production or rehearsal. Screenwriters, producers, and distributors all come into play before a project moves on to the process of hiring the cast and crew, designing and building sets and costumes, creating storyboards, and more. Cinematographers, animators, and special-effects artists are among those who may be called upon to shape the look and feel of a production, ensuring its maximal success when it hits theaters or screens. Articles Sol Lesser American film producer Matt Groening American cartoonist and animator Sven Nykvist Swedish cinematographer Home Entertainment & Pop Culture History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
