URL: https://britannica.com/Geography-Travel
Title: Geography & Travel | Britannica
H1: Geography & Travel
H2: Popular Editor's Picks Spotlight: Antarctica Quizzes Videos Galleries Featured Categories
H3: Ancient Ruins Religious Sites Natural Wonders
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Geography & Travel 7 (or 8) Summits: The World’s Highest Mountains by Continent Mountaineers can all agree that climbing the Seven Summits is among the supreme accomplishments of their sport. © ricktravel/stock.adobe.com © fabiomax/Fotolia The New Seven Wonders of the World The first Seven Wonders of the World list was compiled in the 2nd century BCE, so it was time for an update. © fabiomax/Fotolia Popular 7 Wonders of America Just How Many Oceans Are There? 6 of the World's Smallest Kingdoms Where Is "Old Zealand"? Editor's Picks 5 Transit Stations Worth Seeing Know before you go. Is Mount Everest Really the Tallest Mountain in the World? Tallest by what standard? All the World’s a Stage: 6 Places in Shakespeare, Then and Now Tour with the Bard from Denmark to Egypt. Brazil Brazil, country of South America that occupies half the continent’s landmass. It is the fifth largest country in the world, exceeded in size only by Russia, Canada, China, and the United States, though its area is greater than that of the 48 conterminous U.S. states. Brazil faces the Atlantic Ocean 23 Must-See Buildings for Your First Trip to India Know before you go. Philippines Philippines, island country of Southeast Asia in the western Pacific Ocean. It is an archipelago consisting of more than 7,000 islands and islets lying about 500 miles (800 km) off the coast of Vietnam. Manila is the capital, but nearby Quezon City is the country’s most-populous city. Both are part 28 Places to See on Your California Road Trip Know before you go. 7 Significant Stadiums Know before you go. Spotlight: Antarctica Antarctica is not only the world's southernmost continent. It is also the world's highest, driest, windiest, coldest, and iciest continent. How icy? There's about 7 million cubic miles of it (or 29 million cubic km), representing about 90 percent of the world's ice and 80 percent of its fresh water. All About the World's Southernmost Continent Video: Protecting the Animals of Antarctica's Ross Sea A Trillion Tons of Antarctica Fell into the Sea Quizzes Which Country Is Larger? Quiz See how these countries measure up. Name That World Flag! Our salute to flags from around the world. Can you name the countries they belong to? Wonders of the World Quiz Covering the ancient, new, and natural—prove you are no one-hit wonder. A World of Food Quiz In what country might you sit down to a smorgasbord? Why is durian fruit banned in several places? Take a trip around the world in this study of global cuisine. Videos What are zip codes? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. What are zip codes? The rich history of the Hagia Sophia explained Exploring the biodiversity of Corcovado National Park Exploring Bali, the land of a thousand temples What's inside the Great Pyramid of Khufu? Galleries Belize Mumbai Great Wall of China Angkor Colorado River Mount Fuji Featured Categories Ancient Ruins Petra Petra, ancient city, center of an Arab kingdom in Hellenistic and Roman times, the ruins of which are in southwest Jordan. The city was built on a terrace, pierced from east to west by the Wadi M?s? (the Valley of Moses)—one of the places where, according to tradition, the Israelite leader Moses Roman Baths Roman Baths, well-preserved public bathing facility built about 70 CE on the site of geothermal springs in Roman Britain, now in Bath, England, U.K. The hot mineral springs bubble up from the ground at temperatures well above 104 °F (40 °C), and the main one produces more than 300,000 gallons (1.3 Borobudur Borobudur, massive Buddhist monument in central Java, Indonesia, 26 miles (42 km) northwest of Yogyakarta. The Borobudur monument combines the symbolic forms of the stupa (a Buddhist commemorative mound usually containing holy relics), the temple mountain (based on Mount Meru of Hindu mythology), Chan Chan Chan Chan, great ruined and abandoned city, the capital of the Chimú kingdom (c. 1100–1470 ce) and the largest city in pre-Columbian America. It is situated on the northern coast of present-day Peru, about 300 miles (480 km) north of Lima in the Moche valley, between the Pacific Ocean and the city Religious Sites Mahabodhi Temple Mahabodhi Temple, one of the holiest sites of Buddhism, marking the spot of the Buddha’s Enlightenment (Bodhi). It is located in Bodh Gaya (in central Bihar state, northeastern India) on the banks of the Niranjana River. The Mahabodhi Temple is one of the oldest brick temples in India. The original Mount Athos Mount Athos, mountain in northern Greece, site of a semiautonomous republic of Greek Orthodox monks inhabiting 20 monasteries and dependencies (skítes), some of which are larger than the parent monasteries. It occupies the easternmost of the three promontories of the Chalcidice (Khalkidhikí) Pashupatinath Temple Pashupatinath Temple, place of worship in the Kathmandu Valley on the Baghmati River, on the eastern outskirts of the city of Kathmandu, that is the holiest site in Nepal. It is devoted to the Hindu god Shiva in his form as Pashupati, protector of animals. There has been a religious foundation here Dome of the Rock Dome of the Rock, shrine in Jerusalem built by the Umayyad caliph ?Abd al-Malik ibn Marw?n in the late 7th century ce. It is the oldest extant Islamic monument. The structure is situated on a flat elevated plaza known to Muslims as al-?aram al-Shar?f (“The Noble Sanctuary”) and to Jews as the Natural Wonders Niagara Falls Niagara Falls, waterfall on the Niagara River in northeastern North America, one of the continent’s most famous spectacles. The falls lie on the border between Ontario, Canada, and New York state, U.S. For many decades the falls were an attraction for honeymooners and for such stunts as walking Dead Sea Dead Sea, landlocked salt lake between Israel and Jordan in southwestern Asia. Its eastern shore belongs to Jordan, and the southern half of its western shore belongs to Israel. The northern half of the western shore lies within the Palestinian West Bank and has been under Israeli occupation since Uluru/Ayers Rock Uluru/Ayers Rock, giant monolith, one of the tors (isolated masses of weathered rock) in southwestern Northern Territory, central Australia. It has long been revered by a variety of Australian Aboriginal peoples of the region, who call it Uluru. The rock was sighted in 1872 by explorer Ernest Giles Iguaçu Falls Iguaçu Falls, series of cataracts on the Iguaçu River, 14 miles (23 km) above its confluence with the Alto (Upper) Paraná River, at the Argentina-Brazil border. The falls resemble an elongated horseshoe that extends for 1.7 miles (2.7 km)—nearly three times wider than Niagara Falls in North America History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
