URL: https://britannica.com/new-articles
Title: New Articles | Britannica
H1: New Articles
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. New Articles King’s College London King’s College London, one of the two founding colleges of the University of London, founded in 1829 by King George IV and then prime minister the duke of Wellington. It is a public university and a member of the Russell Group of leading research universities in the United Kingdom. King’s College... MrBeast MrBeast is the byname of Jimmy Donaldson, an American YouTube star and businessman known for his large-scale challenges, massive giveaways, and high-budget philanthropic stunts. He began his YouTube career posting gaming content, videos estimating other creators’ YouTube earnings, and endurance... From Tortoises to Tricksters: 5 Famous Aesop’s Fables The bonfire is crackling, and we are gathered here as our ancestors once were, sharing stories, passing down wisdom, and delighting in the age-old dance of words and wonder. Before books, before ink, before written history itself, there were fables—tales of cunning foxes, proud hares, and wise... Cynthia Erivo Cynthia Erivo is an English actress and singer known for her powerhouse performances in theater, in film, on television, and in music. She gained fame and accolades for her role as Celie in the stage adaptation of Alice Walker’s novel The Color Purple in London (2013) and on Broadway (2015–17), and... 1971 India-Pakistan War 1971 India-Pakistan War, conflict between India and Pakistan in the first half of December 1971 that led to the creation of Bangladesh. The war was rooted in the Bangladesh liberation movement, which opposed Pakistani rule in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) with the goal of creating an independent... Notable Female Spies As the women highlighted here show, female spies have played significant roles throughout history. They worked under challenging and dangerous conditions, and their efforts—though sometimes overlooked—often had a meaningful and lasting impact. Curious to learn more? Check out our list of spies... Federal Communications Commission v. Pacifica Foundation Federal Communications Commission v. Pacifica Foundation (1978) is a legal case in which the U.S. Supreme Court upheld (5–4) the authority of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to regulate broadcast content that it considers indecent. The case was triggered by the airing of a humorous... Zac Efron Zac Efron is an American actor who came to fame as a teen in High School Musical (2006), a TV movie made for the Disney Channel. He later starred in such films as Neighbors (2014), The Greatest Showman (2017), Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil and Vile (2019), and The Iron Claw (2023). Efron’s... Canelo Álvarez Canelo Álvarez is a Mexican professional boxer who has won world championships in four weight classes. Considered among the best pound-for-pound boxers of his generation, Álvarez in 2021 became the first boxer to achieve undisputed world champion status at super middleweight. Álvarez is the... Rooney Rule The Rooney Rule is a requirement implemented by the National Football League (NFL) in 2003 that teams must interview at least one diverse candidate for every head coaching job. Named for Pittsburgh Steelers owner and head of the group that recommended the policy, the late Dan Rooney, the Rooney... Sanjeev Kumar Sanjeev Kumar was an Indian actor who worked chiefly in Bollywood films. He is regarded as one of the most versatile actors in Hindi cinema and is especially known for his compelling portrayals of characters much older than himself. His most memorable performances include his portrayal of Thakur... All the Light We Cannot See All the Light We Cannot See, by Anthony Doerr, is a sprawling, nonlinear narrative set in World War II and told from the perspectives of two children—Marie-Laure LeBlanc and Werner Pfennig—as they grow up in the midst of a world torn apart. Told in short, alternating chapters, Doerr juxtaposes the... Exonerated Japanese Man Awarded $1.4 Million for Decades on Death Row ProCon Debate: Should the Death Penalty Be Legal? ProCon Issue in the News: In 1966 former Japanese featherweight boxer and miso factory worker Iwao Hakamada was convicted in Japan of murdering his employer, his employer’s wife, and two of their children, as well as robbing them and setting their... Madhur Jaffrey Madhur Jaffrey is an Indian-born actress, chef, and writer who parlayed movie stardom into culinary fame, both in her native country and abroad. As an author, Jaffrey is best known for expanding Americans’ knowledge of Indian cuisine with her first cookbook, An Invitation to Indian Cooking (1973).... Substack Substack, online platform that allows content creators to make newsletters and to send them by email through free or paid subscriptions. The platform provides creators with distribution tools and with various post formats, including written pieces and videos. Since its launch, several high-profile... 1965 India-Pakistan War 1965 India-Pakistan War, conflict between India and Pakistan from August to September 1965. It was the second war the two countries fought over the disputed region of Kashmir, which became part of India after the partition of British India in 1947. The territory, portions of which have a... haptic technology Haptic technology, systems that simulate touch through vibration, motion, or other forces. The term haptic is derived from the Greek word haptikós, meaning “to touch” or “to grasp.” Devices that commonly incorporate haptic technology in order to improve user experience include cell phones, game... spaghetti western Spaghetti western, subgenre of movies set in the 19th-century American West that were made by Italian filmmakers and filmed throughout Europe during the 1960s and early ’70s. Spanish journalist Alfonso Sánchez is generally credited with coining the term spaghetti western. Italian filmmakers began... Don McLean Don McLean is an American singer-songwriter who achieved international fame with his 1971 song “American Pie,” an epic and often inscrutable chronicle of a slice of American life in the middle of the 20th century. McLean has released more than 20 albums since his debut in 1970. McLean was born in... chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell therapy (CAR T-cell therapy), type of immunotherapy in which a patient’s T cells are modified to recognize and attack cancer cells. A T cell is a type of white blood cell that determines the specificity of immune response to antigens (foreign substances) in the... How basis trading works (and why borrowing big makes it risky) Basis trading is a common strategy used by professional investors to profit from the small price difference between the cash (or “spot”) price of an asset such as a Treasury security or commodity and what it may be worth several months from now, as reflected in the price of a futures contract based... What Causes a Drought? Droughts occur when evaporation and transpiration rates consistently exceed precipitation over an extended period of time. This prolonged imbalance results in water shortages, crop damage, and reduced streamflow. The primary causes of drought are insufficient rainfall or inadequate snowpack. There... Thelma & Louise Thelma & Louise, American drama adventure film, released in 1991, that was directed by Ridley Scott and is credited with rewriting the rules of the classic road movie. It follows best friends Thelma (played by Geena Davis) and Louise (Susan Sarandon) as they set off on a weekend trip that quickly... Why Do Llamas Spit? Llamas spit for a number of reasons. When a llama feels threatened, it might spit to protect itself or to maintain its position within the group. During mating season, males spit at each other when fighting over females, who might spit at a male to stop his advances. Sometimes llamas spit when they... Afrobeats Afrobeats, style of West African music that emerged in Nigeria and Ghana in the early 2000s and that is known for its fusion of African and Caribbean influences, including highlife, dancehall, Naija beats, and soca. Afrobeats music is upbeat, with danceable rhythms that typically feature... Adam and Eve Adam and Eve, unfinished oil painting created by Austrian painter Gustav Klimt in 1917–18, shortly before he died. Though in some ways, this work seems to be a relic from the perfumed decadence of Vienna’s fin-de-siècle, it also departs from most of Klimt’s work in noticeable ways. Adam and Eve is... Guadalajara cartel Guadalajara cartel, criminal drug-trafficking organization that dominated the Mexican drug trade throughout the 1980s. Often regarded as a precursor to more recent powerful drug cartels, the Guadalajara cartel is marked as a turning point in the history of the Mexican drug trade. The loosely... Simla Agreement Simla Agreement, peace treaty between India and Pakistan, signed on July 2, 1972, in Shimla, India, after the 1971 India-Pakistan War, which ended with Pakistan’s defeat and the creation of Bangladesh. Signed by Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and Pakistani Pres. Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, the... jelly bean Jelly bean, small, brightly colored bean-shaped candy with a chewy interior covered with a candy shell. Jelly beans are generally made with sugar, corn syrup, and pectin. The origin of the confection is unknown, but there are popular theories. The chewy center possibly derives from Turkish delight,... Naseem Hamed Naseem Hamed is an English former professional boxer who was a featherweight champion in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Nicknamed “The Prince,” he was a major celebrity during his pro career, known for his cocky persona, flashy leopard-print shorts, and grand entrances into the boxing ring.... Northern Crusades Northern Crusades, series of military campaigns carried out from the 12th to the 15th century in the eastern Baltic Sea region. The stated goal of these campaigns was to convert the local tribes from paganism to Christianity, although as the campaigns unfolded, other factors also played a part. The... Hulk Hogan Hulk Hogan is one of the most famous performers in the history of professional wrestling. His huge popularity in the 1980s sparked “Hulkamania” and contributed to the rise of the World Wrestling Federation (WWF; now World Wrestling Entertainment [WWE]). Hogan is known for his charisma, immense... Colin Jost Colin Jost is an American comedian, actor, and writer who uses his self-deprecating style to great effect as the longtime cohost (2014– ) of Saturday Night Live’s “Weekend Update.” Jost, who joined the sketch-comedy show in 2005, has also served as a co-head writer (2012–15 and 2017–22). Jost is... Miroslav Klose Miroslav Klose German football (soccer) player who played in the center forward position as a striker. Klose is the all-time leading goal scorer for the German men’s national team. He is the record holder for the most goals scored in the history of the men’s FIFA World Cup tournament. Klose was... Sengoku period Sengoku period, time of civil war, political upheaval, and social transformation in Japan that lasted from roughly 1467 to 1600. The weakening of the Ashikaga shogunate led to the rise of independent daimyo (feudal lords) who fought for supremacy across the country. At the height of the Sengoku... ravine trapdoor spider Ravine trapdoor spider, (Cyclocosmia truncata), species of rare and distinctively shaped North American spider. It is a burrowing spider, inhabiting sloping riverbanks and ravines in Georgia, Alabama, and Tennessee. The spider’s bite is not dangerous to humans, and, because of its reclusive nature,... great bustard Great bustard, (Otis tarda), largest member of the 26 species in the bustard bird family (Otididae). It is the only living member of the genus Otis and since 2023 has been listed as endangered on the IUCN Red List. The word bustard is derived from the Latin phrase avis tarda (“slow bird”). The... Steve Witkoff Steve Witkoff is an American businessman who has worked in real estate, first as an attorney and then as an investor and developer. He amassed a fortune, much of it from the Witkoff Group (founded 1997), which buys, finances, and constructs buildings. In 2025 he became U.S. special envoy to the... Jekyll Island Jekyll Island, barrier island off the coast of the U.S. state of Georgia. It is one of the Sea Islands of the southeastern United States. Jekyll Island was inhabited by Native peoples for centuries before the first European settlement in 1733. The island was used as a private plantation, operated... Luigi Mangione Luigi Mangione is the accused killer of UnitedHealthcare CEO Brian Thompson, who was gunned down in New York City on December 4, 2024. A note found on Mangione at the time of his arrest said, “It had to be done. Frankly, these parasites simply had it coming.” The juxtaposition of Mangione’s youth,... spotted owl Spotted owl, (Strix occidentalis), nonmigratory species of earless North American owls best known for its strong habitat association with old-growth conifer or pine-oak forests and its use as a symbol in ongoing conflicts between logging interests and environmentalists in the Pacific Northwest of... Iran nuclear deal negotiations In his second term in office U.S. Pres. Donald Trump has made finalizing a deal with Iran, limiting its nuclear program and the reach of its military, one of his early foreign policy priorities. The push—amid the far-reaching Israel-Hamas War that has destabilized the entire region and resulted in... Sourav Ganguly Sourav Ganguly is a former Indian international cricketer considered as one of the greatest one-day international (ODI) batters of all time. He was also a medium-paced bowler. He was a member of the “Fab Four” of Indian cricket, a list of incredibly successful Indian batters that included Sachin... retinopathy Retinopathy, damage affecting the small blood vessels in the retina, the light-sensitive layer at the back of the eye, that may lead to partial or complete vision loss. Depending on the underlying cause, symptoms of retinopathy may vary, and the condition may develop gradually or abruptly. Though... Andy Samberg Andy Samberg is an American actor, comedian, writer, producer, and musician known for his work as a cast member and writer for Saturday Night Live (SNL; 2005–12), his role as Detective Jake Peralta on the TV show Brooklyn Nine-Nine (2013–21), and short videos he has made with childhood friends... Who Were the Most Influential Popes? St. Peter, the rock upon which the Christian Church was built, was the first pope, and in many ways, he stands in a class by himself. Jesus dubbed Peter—originally named Simon—Cephas (“Rock” from Aramaic Kepa), which would become Petros (Peter) in Greek. In the Gospel of Matthew (16:18), Jesus... How Do You Get an Invite to the Met Gala? The Met Gala, held on the first Monday in May, is notoriously exclusive. The guest list is limited to about 450 to 600 attendees each year, and all guests need to be approved by Vogue editor in chief Anna Wintour, who has cochaired the event most years since 1995. That’s right, the devil in Prada... What Are Squatters? In 19th-century Australia, squatters were people who occupied grazing land that was owned by the crown and beyond the official limits of settlement. Initially, this occupation was illegal, but it contributed significantly to the growth of the wool industry and the development of a powerful social... Tehri Dam Tehri Dam, multipurpose dam built on the Bhagirathi River in the Garhwal district of Uttarakhand state, India. At 855 feet (260.5 meters) high, it is the tallest dam in the country. Moreover, it is one of the largest hydroelectric power projects in the world. As such, it has raised environmental... The alphabet soup of unemployment data: U-3, U-6, and beyond For most of us, the concept of unemployment seems rather simple: Either you’re working or you’re not. If you’re not working, you’re unemployed. In reality, however, the labor market isn’t that black and white. If you’re focused on the longer-term economic horizon, the headline unemployment... Got an IRS notice or letter? Here are the steps you need to follow You filed your tax return on time and did your best to ensure everything was accurate. But then a letter arrives from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). What should you do? First, try not to stress about it. Although most returns are accepted as filed, the IRS does review others to verify... What Causes Sinkholes? Sinkholes are depressions that form when the underlying limestone bedrock is eroded or dissolved by groundwater. Water, especially when it is slightly acidic, can dissolve soluble rocks like limestone over time (see also acid rain). The wearing away of limestone in contact with the water creates... What Does SOS Mean? SOS is a series of dots and dashes in International Morse Code that is used to signal distress. SOS is communicated by sending three dots, three dashes, and three dots—three dots representing the letter “S” and three dashes representing the letter “O.” This sequence is simple and easy to remember,... Why Do Whales Sing? Whale songs serve as a means of communication among individuals and groups. These vocalizations help whales share information about their location, identity, and even emotional states. For instance, baleen whales, such as humpbacks, produce songs that are not only beautiful but also serve to... World Monuments Fund Lists the Moon as “At Risk” ProCon Debate: Should Humans Colonize Space? ProCon Issue in the News: The World Monuments Fund (WMF) added the Moon to the World Monuments Watch list along with 24 other sites the organization deems endangered, including historic water systems in Bhuj, India, and the chapel of the Sorbonne in... Beau Biden Beau Biden was an American lawyer and state attorney general of Delaware (2007–15) and the eldest son of Joe Biden, the 46th president of the United States (2021–25). Beau Biden was an accomplished and popular politician in Delaware, where he was preparing to run for the nomination as the... Natural gas in the Gaza Strip Natural gas reserves were discovered about 20 miles (35 km) offshore the Gaza Strip in 2000. The reserves, located within the maritime boundaries allocated to the Palestinian Authority (PA) under the bilateral Oslo Accords between Israeli and Palestinian leaders, were a key discovery for the still... Sossusvlei Sossusvlei, the large pan (flat-bottom depression) of salt and clay, typically white in color, that is surrounded by massive orange-red sand dunes in the southern region of the Namib, a coastal desert in Namibia. Sossusvlei is located in the Namib Sand Sea, a region of dune fields that covers about... Barry Keoghan Barry Keoghan is an Irish actor known for his idiosyncratic, sometimes unsettling performances in such films as The Killing of a Sacred Deer (2017), The Banshees of Inisherin (2022), and Saltburn (2023). Keoghan was raised in the hardscrabble Dublin neighborhood of Summerhill. He never knew his... American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) The American Israel Public Affairs Committee, commonly known by the acronym AIPAC, is an influential pro-Israel political lobbying group in the United States. It advocates for U.S. assistance to Israel—in the form of economic and military aid, diplomatic support, and other measures—and for other... “Daisy” Political Ad The “daisy” campaign ad was produced for television by U.S. Pres. Lyndon B. Johnson’s campaign during the 1964 presidential election cycle. The ad was groundbreaking and is widely credited with creating the now-ubiquitous political attack ad. The 1964 presidential election took place on November 3,... American Graffiti American Graffiti, a coming-of-age film directed and cowritten by George Lucas and released in 1973. It was shot on a budget of about $750,000 and wound up grossing more than $140 million worldwide and snagging five Academy Award nominations. American Graffiti focuses on a group of teenagers... segmented spider Segmented spider, (suborder Mesothelae), any of more than 100 species of ancient burrowing spiders that form the smallest of the three main groups of spiders. Known as living fossils, segmented spiders are notable for having distinctive primitive features that have changed little over millennia.... What Causes Soil Erosion? Soil erosion, like rock erosion, is caused by the movement of water and wind, and glaciers. Since soil (whether loose of compact) is less resistant to these forces, soil erosion tends to occur more rapidly than rock erosion. This article will consider the causes of soil erosion that humans are more... What Is The Internet Of Things? The Internet of Things (IoT) consists of the Internet Protocol (IP) and Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), which together provide the standards and rules for devices to connect to the Internet and to each other. The TCP/IP (as the protocols are collectively known) enable the seamless exchange of... The Life Cycle of a Star Stars begin their life cycle in molecular clouds, which are dense regions of gas and dust in space. These clouds contain clumps of material that can collapse under their own gravity to form protostars. The collapse is often triggered by external forces such as shock waves from nearby supernovae. As... Thomas Keller Thomas Keller is an American chef and restaurateur whose restaurant the French Laundry, in Yountville, California, consistently ranks among the best in the world. Keller is the first—and as of 2024 the only—American-born chef to receive three Michelin stars at different restaurants. He is renowned... List of Tick-Borne Diseases Tick-borne diseases are illnesses transmitted to humans and animals through the bite of an infected tick. Ticks can carry a variety of pathogens, including bacteria, viruses, and parasites. In recent years, the incidence of tick-borne diseases has risen in association with climate change: as... What Is the Difference Between Mass and Weight? Mass is a fundamental property of an object that quantifies the amount of matter it contains by measuring its inertia. It is measured in units known as kilograms and remains constant regardless of where the object is located in the universe. This constancy is because mass is not influenced by... What Is Gum Made Of? Chewing gum is made of a blend ingredients that together impart a desired chewiness and texture, complimented by sweetness and flavor. Its specific composition has changed throughout history, with gum base originally being made from chicle, a natural latex from the sapodilla tree. After World War... How Does Fog Form? Fog is a cloud of small water droplets near ground level. It is formed by the condensation of water vapor on tiny particles that are always present in natural air; this occurs when the air becomes saturated with moisture. This increase of moisture can by caused by three processes: There are... What Is Machine Learning? Machine learning is a process that enables computers to learn autonomously by identifying patterns and making data-based decisions. This approach is particularly useful in situations where it is impractical to write detailed instructions for every possible scenario. Many expert systems (programs... The Wretched of the Earth The Wretched of the Earth, book by West Indian psychoanalyst and social philosopher Frantz Fanon, published in French as Les Damnés de la terre in 1961 and first published in English in 1963. Fanon’s text, written in 1960 during the Algerian War of Independence, addresses the history of... devil’s food cake Devil’s food cake, an exceptionally rich dark chocolate layer cake that emerged in the United States at the turn of the 20th century. Although there are different versions of the recipe, it is generally distinguished from other chocolate cakes by the high amount of baking soda used, which makes the... Terrorism Confinement Center Terrorism Confinement Center (CECOT), maximum-security mega-prison located in Tecoluca, El Salvador. Officially named Centro de Confinamiento del Terrorismo in Spanish, it is more commonly referred to by its acronym, CECOT. The institution is one of the largest high-security prisons in the world,... What Causes a Rainbow? What Causes a Rainbow?, The formation of a rainbow begins with the refraction of sunlight as it enters a raindrop. Refraction is the change in direction of a wave (in this case of lightwaves) as it passes from one medium to another caused by its change in speed. Because light travels at different... How Strong Is a Shark’s Bite? When it comes to mighty bites, sharks are exceptionally powerful. In fact, the great white shark has one of the strongest chomps in the animal kingdom—with an estimated bite force of 18,000 N (newtons; 1 N = about 0.2248 pound of force), according to computer analyses. The strongest shark bite ever... Pinterest Pinterest is a social media platform on which users can “pin” photos and videos to virtual inspiration boards. Headquartered in San Francisco, Pinterest boasts more than half a billion active users each month. Pinterest is primarily used by women, with the company reporting a 70 percent female user... Western World Western World, cultural-geographic descriptor generally referring to the countries of western Europe and nations originating as western European settler colonies. The Western World, or “West” colloquially, has been a powerful and discursive concept for millennia, during which the geographic and... How Do Spiders Make Webs? Spiders are a diverse group of arachnids, with over 46,700 identified species. While not all spiders spin webs, those that do construct them in a variety of forms, including tube- and funnel-shaped webs, sheet webs, and elaborate orb-shaped webs. Orb weavers create the iconic circular webs most... What Do am and pm Stand For? The abbreviations am and pm are used in the 12-hour clock system, which divides the day into two 12-hour periods, distinguishing between the morning and afternoon or evening hours. This system is based on the position of the Sun relative to the meridian, an imaginary north–south line on the Earth’s... Rishikesh Rishikesh, city in the Dehradun district of Uttarakhand state, in northern India. Located on the right bank of the Ganga (Ganges) River, it is a holy city and pilgrimage site for Hindus. It attracts practitioners of yoga and many visitors seeking spiritual solace. Pop. (2011) 70,499. Rishikesh is... Yuvraj Singh Yuvraj Singh is a former Indian international cricketer. Nicknamed “Yuvi,” he scored 11,778 runs and took 148 wickets in international cricket—9 in Tests, 111 in One Day Internationals (ODIs), and 28 in Twenty20 Internationals (T20Is). Considered a brilliant all-rounder, he was known for his... How Long Was the Oregon Trail? The Oregon Trail was one of the main routes for emigrants heading to the West of the United States during the 19th century. It represented a formidable journey, stretching approximately 2,000 miles (3,200 km) from Independence, Missouri, to Oregon City, near present-day Portland, Oregon. The trail... Why Are Bees Important? Bees are crucial to our world for several reasons, primarily due to their role as pollinators. The approximately 20,000 species of bees are the most important insect pollinators, contributing significantly to the reproduction of flowering plants and the formation of fruits and seeds. Without bees,... We Shall Overcome We Shall Overcome, protest song that became an anthem of the American civil rights movement in the 1950s and ’60s. The modern version of the song derives from the folk music of enslaved people in the United States and an early 20th-century gospel song written by minister Charles Albert Tindley.... Why Is 13 Unlucky? The belief that the number 13 brings bad luck can be traced back to various historical and cultural beliefs. In Norse mythology, the story of Loki crashing a banquet in Valhalla is a significant contributor. Loki, the god of mischief, was the 13th guest at a dinner party, and his presence led to... lockdown Lockdown, the ordered confinement of one or more people to a specific location, most commonly for protection from or prevention of violence or for punishment. Lockdowns are usually temporary and most commonly occur in municipalities, schools, and correctional facilities. The first known use of the... Foundation series Foundation series, series of seven science fiction novels by American author Isaac Asimov, published between 1951 and 1993. The series describes the efforts of the Foundation, an organization that seeks to shorten the period of barbarism after the collapse of the Galactic Empire in accordance with... Drudge Report Founded in the early days of the Internet, the Drudge Report is a U.S.-based news site whose bare-bones approach belied the role it played as a disrupter in American politics and media. Named for its brash, upstart founder, Matt Drudge, the publication was the first to break the news that U.S.... Barak River Barak River, river in northeastern India that rises in the hills of Manipur, flows through Mizoram, and enters Assam. Just before flowing into the neighboring country of Bangladesh, the Barak splits into the Surma River and the Kusiyara River. These two rivers meet to form the Meghna River, which... K2-18b K2-18b, extrasolar planet with an atmosphere containing dimethyl sulfide (DMS) and dimethyl disulfide (DMDS), which could indicate the possible presence of life. K2-18b was discovered in 2015 by the Kepler satellite during its K2 mission phase, when the satellite operated with only two of its four... What Do Ants Eat? There are approximately 10,000 species of ants on Earth, with a wide range of diets and behaviors among them. Many ant species are opportunistic omnivores and consume plant-based foods, such as nectar, resins, and saps, as well as animal-based foods, including live prey and scavenged carcasses, as... How disability insurance helps to bridge the income gap when you can’t work When a serious illness or injury keeps you from working, disability insurance can help replace part of your income. But whether you qualify for benefits and how much you receive often depends on details buried in the fine print. Terms like “elimination period,” “own occupation,” and “residual... Could a bill negotiation service save you money? Recurring bills such as Internet, cell phone, satellite radio, and home security can quietly add hundreds of dollars to your monthly household budget. Sure, you could call your providers and ask for a better rate. Or you can let someone else do the dirty work and save yourself time and frustration.... Adjustable-rate mortgage: Money saver or budgeting headache? If you’re buying a home or other property, it’s a good bet you’ll need a mortgage. One of the first decisions you’ll face is whether to go with an adjustable-rate mortgage or a fixed-rate loan. Understanding how these two options work can benefit anyone, whether you’re a first-time homebuyer or a... sea level rise Sea level rise, the increase in global average sea level caused by the addition of water, heat, or both to the oceans. Sea level rise is driven by an increase in water volume caused by melting glaciers and ice sheets, thermal expansion of water as oceans and seas absorb heat (causing their water... Christopher Luxon Christopher Luxon is the prime minister of New Zealand (2023– ). Luxon led the center-right National Party to an electoral victory in October 2023 and formed a coalition government with the support of the conservative ACT New Zealand Party, and the populist New Zealand First Party. Luxon succeeded... What Eats Snakes? Although snakes are predators, they are also themselves eaten by other creatures, making them secondary consumers in the trophic pyramid. Birds of prey, such as hawks and eagles, are some of the most common predators of snakes. These birds have keen eyesight and powerful talons, making them... Anna Kendrick Anna Kendrick is an American actress known for playing amiable but awkward characters in comedies and musicals such as Scott Pilgrim vs. the World (2010), Pitch Perfect (2012), and the Trolls film franchise. In addition to her comedic roles, she has earned praise for her dramatic work in films... Why Do Cats Like Catnip? The aromatic leaves of the catnip (Nepeta cataria), a herb of the mint family, are known to be particularly exciting to cats. The secret to catnip’s allure lies in the volatile oil known as nepetalactone, which has a psychoactive quality. This compound is found in the leaves and stems of the catnip... Independent Living movement The Independent Living movement promotes autonomy for people with disabilities to make decisions about their lives, champions support and resources, and calls for integration of people with disabilities into their communities. Though the movement has roots throughout the 1960s and early ’70s, Ed... Bernie Taupin Who do you think wrote these words? Or these? Or these? If your answer is “Those are Elton John songs,” you’re right. But John wrote the music, not the words. The lyrics to some of the most iconic, ear-wormy, singalong songs of the second half of the 20th century are the work of Bernie Taupin,... kawaii culture Kawaii culture, Japanese cultural phenomenon that celebrates cuteness through embracing people, objects, and fictional characters that portray youthful innocence, charm, warmth, and playfulness. Kawaii characters often feature bright or pastel colors, round faces, large eyes, a small or nonexistent... Who’s Who at the Moth Ball Moths do not get the adoration of their butterfly counterparts, but their beauty is no less dazzling. Many people are unaware that the vast majority of the 180,000 Lepidopteran species on Earth are moths, not butterflies or skippers, and that the entire group is in decline. To give moths some time... pelican spider Pelican spider, (family Archaeidae), ancient family of nearly 30 species and five genera of spiders found in Madagascar, South Africa, and Australia that were thought to be extinct. Pelican spiders are so named for their distinctive arching cephalothorax (fused head and thorax) and long chelicerae... List of Mass Suicides of the 20th and 21st Centuries Among the many unfortunate events that fill the pages of history, there have been numerous shocking examples of mass suicide. Some of these mass suicides have been motivated by religious fervor and conviction, whereas others have been based on social codes of honor. In the ancient world the story... Ramy Youssef Ramy Youssef is an American writer, comedian, and actor best known for exploring his experience as the son of Egyptian immigrants and as an observant Muslim in stand-up comedy specials and the award-winning, semi-autobiographical television series Ramy (2019– ). Youssef grew up in suburban... Oasis Oasis, British rock band that helped give rise to the so-called Britpop sound that was popular in the United Kingdom during the 1990s. Led by the tempestuous and often fractious brothers vocalist Liam Gallagher and guitarist and chief songwriter Noel Gallagher, the group achieved immense commercial... John B. Anderson John B. Anderson was an American politician best known for mounting a vigorous third-party run for president in 1980 and for his willingness to take unpopular positions. Anderson’s father, E. Albin Anderson, was a Swedish immigrant who married Mabel Edna (née Ring) and settled in Rockford,... 2024 YR4 2024 YR4, an asteroid expected to pass close to Earth on December 22, 2032. For a brief period after its discovery, experts said that there was up to a 3 percent chance that it would impact Earth on that date. Astronomers were concerned because its size—53 to 67 meters (174 to 220 feet)... Lynn Conway Lynn Conway was a trailblazing computer scientist, often called the “hidden hand” of microchip design. One of the first Americans to undergo gender-affirming surgery, Conway was also a prominent advocate for transgender rights. An Early Encounter with Gender Norms An article published in the Los... Dan Aykroyd Dan Aykroyd is a Canadian American comedian and actor best known for his deadpan, fast-talking, and antic sense of humor, first as an original cast member on the late-night sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live (SNL; 1975– ) and later in films, notably The Blues Brothers (1980) and Ghostbusters... What Color Is the Hottest Flame? Want to know how hot a fire is burning? The color of its flames can help. When something burns, it is undergoing combustion. Combustion is a chemical reaction that, typically, turns oxygen and fuel into heat and light in the form of a flame, which can range in color depending on how efficiently... Two Major Arrests Put Spotlight on Dogfighting Crimes ProCon Debate: Should Breed-Specific Legislation (“Pit Bull Bans”) Be Enacted? ProCon Issue in the News: Two major 2025 arrests have catapulted the issue of dogfighting into the spotlight. Dogfighting is a felony in all 50 U.S. states. First, on January 30 Vincent Lemark Burrell, a 57-year-old man... What Are Turtle Shells Made Of? Turtle shells are made of bone and cartilage, but it is the form and function of the shells that make them unique in the animal kingdom. The top part of the shell is called the carapace while the underside is known as the plastron. Both parts are formed from two types of bone: dermal bones, which... Why Do Beavers Build Dams? Beavers are quite the clever architects when it comes to safeguarding their homes. They build dams to raise the water depth around their lodges—their dome-shaped homes made of sticks and mud. This deeper water acts as a natural barrier, making it challenging for predators to access their lodges. It... Lord Alfred Douglas In 1891 a 20-year-old university student met the famed Irish writer and wit Oscar Wilde. The student, a golden-haired aristocrat and poet named Lord Alfred Douglas, soon began a romantic relationship with Wilde, who was 16 years older and married with two children. Their relationship exploded a... ageism Ageism, the discrimination or expression of prejudice against an individual based on age. Older people are the most common targets of ageism, but younger people can also experience it. Ageism can have a negative impact on a person’s employment, health care, housing, and mental health, as well as on... ProCon Quizzes (Test Yourself) ProCon is releasing a new assessment quiz, tied to a ProCon topic, each week. The quizzes are a great way to test your knowledge of a topic both before and after you read ProCon’s presentation of the issue. Good luck! Animal Testing Artificial Intelligence Gun Control Homework School Uniforms... Idina Menzel Idina Menzel is an American actor and singer whose three-octave mezzo-soprano voice has made her a star of stage and screen in the late 20th and early 21st centuries. She is best known for her roles as Maureen in the Broadway musical Rent (1996); Elphaba in the Broadway musical Wicked (2003); and... Why Do Zebras Have Stripes? There are several theories about why zebras have stripes. Scientists believe that one of the main reasons is camouflage coloration, creating disruptive patterns to confuse predators. When zebras stand together in a group, their stripes create a visual illusion that makes it difficult for predators... America at 250 The “shot heard ’round the world” marked the beginning of the American Revolution on April 19, 1775. But this event was preceded by years of deteriorating relations between Britain and its American colonies, as well as a growing spirit of independence among the colonists. Founding Father John Adams... Myanmar earthquake of 2025 Myanmar earthquake of 2025, powerful magnitude-7.7 earthquake that struck Myanmar (Burma) on March 28, 2025. The main temblor, which occurred at 12:50 pm local time, was centered near Mandalay, the country’s second largest city; it was followed by a strong magnitude-6.7 aftershock close by only 12... Abrahamic religions Abrahamic religions, classification of religions that includes Judaism, Christianity, and Islam based on their common reverence for the biblical figure Abraham. More expansive lists include religious communities such as Bah???, the Druze, and Rastafari. The category of Abrahamic religions has... dead-cat bounce In financial markets, a dead-cat bounce describes a brief market recovery (“rally”) following a sharp decline—one that quickly fades and gives way to further losses. The term comes from an old market saying, one laced with dark humor and a rather morbid image that’s stuck around in financial slang:... Wild Swans Wild Swans, personal and family memoir by Chinese-born British author Jung Chang. Published in 1991, it was widely praised and is her best-known work. In Wild Swans, Chang recounts the lives of three generations of women in her family during the political storms of China in the 20th century, from... Woman at Point Zero Woman at Point Zero, novel by Nawal El Saadawi, originally published in Arabic as Amra?ah ?ind nuq?ah al-?ifr in 1975. Woman at Point Zero was first published in English in 1983 and has also been classified as creative nonfiction. Saadawi states that while she was investigating how prison affects... folding-door spider Folding-door spider, (family Antrodiaetidae), small family of nearly 40 species and four genera of large burrowing spiders named for their habit of shutting the entrance to their burrows by pulling in the sides of the flexible rim like bifold doors. Nearly all folding-door spiders inhabit North... Chinese cuisine Chinese cuisine, any of a number of styles of food from China. Chinese cuisine is enormously varied because of the country’s vast geographic and ecological diversity, as well as its large population. This diversity is reflected by differences in ingredients, regional and ethnic traditions, and... Why Do Gorillas Beat Their Chests? Chest beating is a powerful tool in the gorilla’s communication arsenal. Both males and females engage in this behavior, but it is more pronounced in males due to their larger size and the presence of air sacs in the chest and throat that enhance the sound. When a gorilla beats its chest it is... Gross, operating, and net profit margins: Why they matter (and how to use them) The first rule of business is that it can’t succeed unless it can bring in enough revenue to cover all of its costs. That’s why business owners and investors focus on profits and profit margins, which look at profit as a percentage of the revenue—or sales—that the company has brought in. Data from... Fagradalsfjall volcano Fagradalsfjall volcano, active shield volcano (a large dome-shaped mountain constructed by the stacking of lava flows) located on the Reykjanes Peninsula in southwestern Iceland. The summit of the Fagradalsfjall volcano stands about 820 feet (250 meters) above sea level, and the volcano is near the... ball culture Ball culture, an LGBTQ+ subculture in which drag performers compete in contests known as balls and are judged on their costuming, hair and makeup, dance, personality, and other qualities. The contestants often compete in categories reflecting high fashion and queer culture or satirizing stereotypes... Han Chinese Han Chinese, East Asian ethnic group and the world’s largest ethnic group, with more than 1.4 billion members. They comprise the majority populations of China, Taiwan, and Singapore and also maintain minority communities around the world. The Han Chinese originated in the central plains of northern... Dow theory and the foundations of technical analysis What do the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the Wall Street Journal, and technical analysis have in common? All three stem from one financial journalist named Charles Dow. He invented the Dow Jones averages, cofounded the newspaper that became the WSJ, and laid the groundwork for modern theories of... Secured overnight financing rate (SOFR): Setting the variable interest rate standard The secured overnight financing rate (SOFR) is an interest rate calculated by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York based on the overnight borrowing cost for secured funds (i.e., those backed by Treasury securities). It replaced the London interbank offer rate (LIBOR) as the standard benchmark for... How Do Tariffs Work? Tariffs are one of the most controversial and frequently debated tools in international trade. They function like a tax on foreign goods—one that affects every link in the supply chain. Manufacturers, distributors, and retailers all absorb some of the cost, but the higher prices consumers pay are... Barron Hilton Barron Hilton (born October 23, 1927, Dallas; died September 19, 2019, Los Angeles) was an American businessman who led the Hilton family hotel empire and helped found the American Football League. He was also the grandfather of socialite Paris Hilton. William Barron Hilton (known as Barron) was... Guns, Germs, and Steel Guns, Germs, and Steel, popular social science book by University of California, Los Angeles professor Jared Diamond published in 1997. In the publication Diamond argued that geography can explain the inequality that exists between different societies. The book is framed as an answer to a question... Kristalina Georgieva Kristalina Georgieva (born August 13, 1953, Sofia, Bulgaria) is a Bulgarian economist and the leader of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). When she took the position in 2019, she was the first person from a country classified as an emerging market to preside over the IMF. She previously served... How Do Plants Grow? Unlike most animals, plants continue to grow throughout their entire life span. Plant growth and plant development are consequences of three processes: cell division (the process called mitosis), cell enlargement, and cell differentiation. Plant growth also depends on internal plant genetics and... cordyceps Cordyceps, (genus Cordyceps), genus of more than 300 species of fungi, the majority of which are endoparasites that infect and digest insects and other arthropods. The fungi have a cosmopolitan distribution and are found on every continent except Antarctica; they are particularly diverse in Asia.... Europa Clipper Europa Clipper, robotic, solar-powered orbiter launched to Jupiter’s moon Europa by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) on October 14, 2024. The spacecraft—at the time of its launch the largest developed by NASA for a planetary mission—aims to understand the nature of the icy... Schedule F Schedule F, Schedule F is an employment category of federal government workers established in an executive order issued by U.S. Republican Pres. Donald Trump in 2020, near the end of his first term (2017–21). Executive Order 13957 was designed to eliminate standard job protections for thousands of... Condor and iron condor option strategies Advanced options traders know that some strategies are designed for a directional view, meaning you think a stock (or stock index, commodity, or other asset) is headed higher or lower. Other strategies, such as straddles and strangles, target volatility and magnitude. Building on those, there are... Disability insurance types: How to figure out what you need An injury or illness can upend your life in an instant. If it keeps you from working, your bills, rent, and everyday expenses still need to be paid. Disability insurance helps fill that gap by replacing some of your income when you can’t work. But not all coverage works the same way. Understanding... California trapdoor spider California trapdoor spider, (Bothriocyrtum californicum), species of large, burrowing North American spider endemic to cliffs and sunny hillsides in southern California. Capable of resisting forces up to 38 times its weight while in its burrow, the California trapdoor spider has been hailed as the... Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) was signed into law by President Barack Obama on July 21, 2010, after a collapse in the subprime mortgage market spread to other financial derivatives and led to a near-failure of the entire financial system. The... The Vicar of Dibley The Vicar of Dibley, British television situation comedy that aired on BBC One from 1994 to 2000, with special episodes continuing until 2020. During its run, the show had high viewership and was nominated for several BAFTA awards. It received an International Emmy Award in 1998. The series follows... How Do Mirrors Work? The law of reflection is fundamental to how mirrors work. When light hits a mirror, it reflects off the surface at an angle equal to the angle at which it arrived. This principle allows mirrors to form images by reflecting light in a predictable manner. Mirrors can have either plane or curved... How Do Oysters Make Pearls? The pearl-making process begins when a foreign particle, like a grain of sand or a tiny parasite, finds its way into the oyster’s shell. This uninvited guest irritates the oyster, much like a pebble in a shoe. To protect itself, the oyster’s mantle tissue, which is responsible for shell formation,... How Do Birds Know When to Fly South? In the Northern Hemisphere, migratory birds tend to fly south to spend the winter in warmer locales. (Though in the Southern Hemisphere, migratory birds generally fly north for the winter.) Migratory birds know when to fly south for the winter due to a combination of internal physiological changes... How Does The Internet Work? With its flexible architecture and far reach, the Internet allows various computer networks to seamlessly connect using what is known as the Internet protocol suite. The open architecture plan was a key factor in the Internet’s development, as it allows many diverse networks to be integrated... How Is Chocolate Made? Chocolate’s journey from bean to bar is a fascinating process that begins with the humble cocoa bean, the seed of the cacao tree, which thrives in tropical climates. Once harvested, the beans are fermented for several days, a crucial step that develops their flavor, fragrance, and color. After... How Do Tectonic Plates Move? Scientists are still debating how tectonic plates move, but most of experts believe that the movement of plates is caused by the convection currents within the planet’s mantle. As heat in the Earth’s interior rises, it causes the mantle’s material to move in a circular pattern. This movement is... bolas spider Bolas spider, (genus Mastophora), genus of about 50 species of New World spiders known for the particular hunting method of the females. Female bolas spiders capture their flying prey by swinging a sticky droplet at the end of a silky thread, much like the South American bola hunting weapon. Bolas... How Do Magnets Work? The fundamental principle behind magnetism is the magnetic field, which arises from the motion of electric charges. This field exerts forces on other magnetic objects and moving charges, causing attraction or repulsion. For instance, Earth’s magnetic field causes compass needles to line up in... white flight White flight, departure of white residents from neighborhoods in response to the arrival of non-European racial, ethnic, or cultural groups. The term white flight was originally coined to describe the exodus of white households from school districts in the United States that began admitting Black... João Lourenço João Lourenço is an Angolan politician and, since 2017, the president of Angola. He has been a longtime member of the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (Movimento Popular de Libertação de Angola; MPLA), the former liberation movement that is now Angola’s ruling party, and in September... How Did the Magna Carta Influence the American Constitution? The Magna Carta significantly influenced the American Constitution by laying the groundwork for the concepts of individual rights, due process, and the rule of law. This medieval document, which King John of England originally stamped with his seal in 1215, eventually became a cornerstone for the... Jeffrey Wright Jeffrey Wright is an American actor known for his ability to play villains and heroes, supporting characters, and famous historical figures. His versatility and compelling presence in film, theater, and television, including in the original Broadway production (1993) of the Tony Kushner play Angels... Steve Wynn Steve Wynn (born January 27, 1942, New Haven, Connecticut, U.S.) is an American businessman who founded several popular Las Vegas casinos and hotels including The Mirage, Treasure Island, and Bellagio. After a 2018 article in The Wall Street Journal brought to light dozens of sexual misconduct... How Was Earth Created? Earth’s creation is a fascinating tale of interstellar material coming together to form the planet we now call home. It all began around 4.6 billion years ago when a massive cloud of dust and gas, known as the solar nebula, began to collapse under its own gravity. At the center of this collapse,... How Does Metal Rust? Rust is the result of a chemical reaction between metal, typically iron, and oxygen in the presence of moisture. This process, known as oxidation, transforms the metal into a new compound, iron oxide, which we commonly recognize as rust. The presence of water and oxygen is crucial for rust to form,... Universal Music Group Universal Music Group is an international music conglomerate with a vast portfolio of record labels, music publishing companies, and distribution networks across multiple countries. UMG is one of the “big three” major record labels along with Sony Music and Warner Music Group. The company’s primary... How Do 3D Printers Work? 3D printing is a process that consists of layering two-dimensional cross-sections sequentially to build a three-dimensional object. The process is similar to how a traditional printer applies ink to paper; however, a 3D printer solidifies or binds a liquid or powder material at specific points to... suzetrigine Suzetrigine, pain-relieving drug, the first to be developed in a class of agents known as non-opioid analgesics, named for the ability to provide pain relief without the risk of addiction associated with the use of opioid medications. Suzetrigine was designed specifically for adults with moderate... Tren de Aragua Tren de Aragua, Venezuela’s most powerful and far-reaching criminal organization. The organization emerged in the early 2010s as a prison gang in the Tocorón penitentiary in the Venezuelan state of Aragua but grew into a transnational organization with operations across South America. Its expansion... How Do Fish Sleep? Fish enter a restful state marked by minimal movement and decreased responsiveness. During this time, they maintain their balance and continue slow, gentle movements, allowing them to conserve energy while remaining able to respond quickly to threats. Although this state resembles sleep, it differs... How Deadly Is the Pong Pong Tree from The White Lotus? Poisonous pong pongClose-up of the unripe fruits of the pong pong, or suicide tree (Cerbera odollam). The seeds contain a potent and deadly cardiac glycoside and are responsible for numerous accidental and intentional deaths every year. © Wootipong Sirinanant/Dreamstime.com One of the most... Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge, 1995Shah Rukh Khan and Kajol in a scene from Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge (“The Brave-Hearted Will Win the Bride”)© Collection Christophel/Alamy Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge (DDLJ), a genre-defining Bollywood film, directed by Aditya Chopra and released in 1995. Dilwale... Panama Canal Treaty Panama Canal Treaty, (September 7, 1977), agreement signed in Washington, D.C., by U.S. Pres. Jimmy Carter and Panamanian leader Omar Torrijos that provided for the gradual transfer of the operations of the Panama Canal to Panama, the phaseout of U.S. military bases in the Canal Zone, and reversion... Bihu Bihu, three distinct festivals—Bohag Bihu, Kati Bihu, and Magh Bihu—celebrated in the Indian state of Assam, each marking an important phase in the farming cycle. Bohag Bihu and Magh Bihu are joyous festivals that involve music, dance (the dance form is also known as Bihu), and feasting because... How Is the Pope Elected? A new pope is elected to lead the Roman Catholic Church through a procedure known as the papal conclave, which takes place in Vatican City after a pope dies or resigns. Only cardinals under the age of 80 are eligible to vote, and the selection is typically made from among the cardinals themselves,... Kristen Bell Kristen Bell is an American actress who rose to fame starring as a high-school sleuth in the teen crime series Veronica Mars (2004–07, 2019). She has worked steadily since, starring in such hits as the television series The Good Place (2016–20) and Nobody Wants This (2024– ) as well as the Disney... Akshaya Tritiya Akshaya Tritiya, a festival in Hindu and Jain traditions, observed during the Hindu calendar month of Vaishakha (April–May). It is celebrated on the third lunar day (tritiya) of the fortnight of the waxing moon (shukla paksha). The word akshaya means “imperishable” or “eternal,” signifying success... static friction Static friction, force that resists the sliding or rolling of one solid object over another when the two objects are at rest with respect to each other. In contrast, friction acting between objects in relative motion with respect to each other is called kinetic friction. An attempt to move, say, a... How Do Penguins Stay Warm? Penguins have a unique feather arrangement and body structure that provides excellent insulation. Their feathers are short and densely packed, which not only minimizes friction and turbulence in water to help penguins swim but also traps a layer of air close to the skin. This air layer acts as an... Major Executive Orders Issued by U.S. Pres. Donald Trump During His Second Term of Office (2025– ) U.S. Pres. Donald Trump signed 26 executive orders on January 20, 2025, a record number for the first day of a presidential term. The orders issued on that day and during the following weeks were not only numerous but also wide-ranging and assertive of Trump’s bold campaign promises of significant... Eve Babitz In the 1970s American writer and artist Eve Babitz began chronicling her wild life and times growing up in Los Angeles and her involvement in Southern California’s counterculture. In books such as Eve’s Hollywood (1972) and Slow Days, Fast Company (1974), Babitz displayed a writing style as... Under the Net Under the Net, first published novel by British author and philosopher Iris Murdoch. Appearing in 1954, Under the Net captures the exuberant spirit of freedom in postwar Europe and exhibits Murdoch’s trademark combination of wit and high seriousness. Jake Donaghue, the novel’s swashbuckling... How Do Fireflies Light Up? Fireflies light up summer nights using a chemical process known as bioluminescence, the key chemical players of which are the light-emitting compound luciferin and the enzyme luciferase. Luciferin, in the presence of luciferase, undergoes oxidation, resulting in the production of oxyluciferin, an... Veronika Decides to Die Veronika Decides to Die, novel by Brazilian writer Paulo Coelho. It was first published in Portuguese as Veronika decide morrer in 1998 and appeared in English in 1999. The novel is set in Ljubljana, Slovenia, where, with a steady stream of boyfriends, a secure job in a library, an apartment of her... How Is Silk Made? The journey of silk begins with the silkworm, specifically the domesticated silkworm known as Bombyx mori. This caterpillar is raised in a process called sericulture, where it is fed mulberry leaves until it is ready to spin a cocoon. The silkworm builds the cocoon by producing and surrounding... William Moulton Marston William Moulton Marston was an American psychologist who is best remembered for his contributions to two distinct fields: psychology and comic books. His work led to the invention of an early prototype of the lie detector test, which was developed from ideas Marston formulated with his wife,... What Are Torpedo Bats? Torpedo bat vs. traditional batThe newly designed torpedo bat (left) next to a conventionally shaped bat in the dugout during a Toronto Blue Jays–Washington Nationals game in Toronto, March 31, 2025.© Mark Blinch/Getty Images The torpedo bat, also called the bowling pin bat, is a new baseball bat... How Is Honey Made? Only a handful of the more than 20,000 species of bees on Earth make honey, with domesticated honeybees (Apis mellifera) being the major source of the sweet liquid. Honeybees first collect nectar from flowers (and sometimes non-floral nectar sources) and store it in their “honey stomachs.” As the... How Hot Is the Sun? The surface of the Sun, known as the photosphere, reaches a temperature of about 5,800 kelvin (K; 10,000 degrees °F). This intense heat is what gives the Sun its glow, providing the warmth necessary for life on Earth. Deep within the Sun, the temperature in the core is 15 million kelvin (27 million... How Was Mount Rushmore Built? The idea for what became Mount Rushmore National Memorial was proposed in 1923 by South Dakota state historian Doane Robinson, who wanted to promote tourism. However, it was American sculptor Gutzon Borglum who brought the project to life. Borglum envisioned a grand monument that would symbolize... How Is Sugar Made? Sugar production starts with either sugarcane (Saccharum officinarum) or sugar beets (Beta vulgaris), the two primary sources of sucrose. Sucrose is found in many plants, but it occurs at concentrations high enough for economic recovery only in those two; the sugar maple tree and the date palm also... Marcus Samuelsson Marcus Samuelsson is an Ethiopian-born chef, restaurateur, author, and television personality. In 1995, as executive chef of Aquavit, a Scandinavian restaurant in New York City, Samuelsson, at age 24, became the youngest chef to earn a three-star rating from The New York Times. He has won many... What’s the Difference Between a Symphony and an Orchestra? The relationship between a symphony and an orchestra is that the orchestra is the ensemble that performs the symphony. While a symphony is a type of musical composition, the orchestra is the group of musicians that brings it to life. A symphony is a large-scale musical composition, typically... perseveration Perseveration, the repetitive and uncontrollable continuation of a thought, behavior, or response, even when it is no longer appropriate or relevant. Perseveration commonly is associated with neurological disorders, brain injuries, and psychiatric conditions and can have a significant impact on a... Can a U.S. President Serve a Third Term? Among legal scholars, pundits, and politicians, the most common answer to this question is no. According to this view, the Twenty-second Amendment (1951) to the Constitution of the United States effectively prohibits any twice-elected president from serving a third term; it also blocks a second... How Much Does an Elephant Weigh? The short answer? A lot. The African bush elephant (Loxodonta africana), also known as the African savanna elephant, is the largest living land animal on Earth. It can weigh between about 9,900 and 13,500 pounds (between 4,500 kg and 6,100 kg), with some males reaching up to 24,000 pounds (10,886... History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
