URL: https://britannica.com/biography/Saint-Catherine-of-Siena
Title: St. Catherine of Siena | Biography, Feast Day, Miracles, & Patron Saint Of | Britannica
H1: St. Catherine of Siena
H2: Childhood and religious life Ministry and defense of the papacy Writings Relics
H3: Who is St. Catherine of Siena? Why is St. Catherine of Siena significant in the history of Roman Catholicism? Where is St. Catherine of Siena buried?
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: St. Catherine of Siena
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. St. Catherine of Siena Table of Contents Introduction & Top Questions Childhood and religious life Ministry and defense of the papacy Writings Relics References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Images Related Questions Who is St. Catherine of Siena? Why is St. Catherine of Siena significant in the history of Roman Catholicism? Where is St. Catherine of Siena buried? Read Next What Is the Most Widely Practiced Religion in the World? 9 Historic Buildings in Florence Roman Catholic Saints Why Do People Say “Amen” at the End of a Prayer? Too Good to Rot? Saints with Incorrupt Bodies Discover All 119 References in “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms 5 Unbelievable Facts About Christopher Columbus Timeline of the American Civil Rights Movement Is Australia an Island? Timeline of the 1990s How Many Countries Are There in the World? Contents Philosophy & Religion Religious Personages & Scholars Saints & Popes Lo Spagna: Saint Catherine of Siena Saint Catherine of Siena, painting with tempera and oil on panel by Lo Spagna (Giovanni di Pietro), 1510–15; in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago. (more) St. Catherine of Siena Italian mystic Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/biography/Saint-Catherine-of-Siena Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Academia - Catherine of Siena: A Dominican political thinker in fourteenth?century Italy (PDF) Franciscan Media - Saint Catherine of Siena Christian History Magazine - Biography of Catherine of Siena Christianity Today - Catherine of Siena BBC Sounds - Great Lives - Dorothy Byrne on Catherine of Siena Eternal Word Television Network - Biography of Saint Catherine of Siena Ask the Chatbot a Question Also known as: Caterina Benincasa Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: May 1, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Quick Facts Original name: Caterina Benincasa (Show more) Born: March 25, 1347, Siena, Tuscany [Italy] (Show more) Died: April 29, 1380, Rome (aged 33) (Show more) (Show more) (Show more) Subjects Of Study: mysticism (Show more) Role In: Avignon papacy (Show more) See all related content Show More Top Questions Who is St. Catherine of Siena? St. Catherine of Siena was a Dominican tertiary and mystic who lived in Italy in the 1300s. She was known for her holiness, asceticism, and spiritual visions and was said to have received stigmata (the wounds of Christ). She was also a reformer and a political activist, and she was influential in religious and political affairs of the church. Why is St. Catherine of Siena significant in the history of Roman Catholicism? St. Catherine of Siena is one of only four women who have been named doctors of the church, meaning that her writings, including the mystical The Dialogue and her prayers and letters, have special authority in Roman Catholicism. She was an important defender of the papacy and is a patron saint of Europe and of Italy. Where is St. Catherine of Siena buried? St. Catherine of Siena died at age 33 in Rome and was buried there in the Basilica Santa Maria sopra Minerva. Some of her relics are on display in other cities. Her head and thumb are preserved in the church of St. Dominic in Siena. Other relics are in Venice and Belgium. St. Catherine of Siena (born March 25, 1347, Siena, Tuscany [Italy]—died April 29, 1380, Rome; canonized 1461; feast day April 29) was a Dominican tertiary and mystic who is one of the most revered holy women in the Roman Catholic Church. One of the patron saints of Italy, she was declared a doctor of the church in 1970 and a patron saint of Europe in 1999. (Read Britannica’s essay “Women of Faith: Meet the Four Female Doctors of the Church.”) Childhood and religious life Catherine was the youngest of 25 children born into a lower middle-class family; most of her siblings did not survive childhood. At a young age she is said to have consecrated her virginity to Christ and experienced mystical visions. Catherine became a tertiary (a member of a monastic third order who takes simple vows and may remain outside a convent or monastery) of the Dominican order (1363), joining the Sisters of Penitence of St. Dominic in Siena. More From Britannica Women of Faith: Meet the Four Female Doctors of the Church: St. Catherine of Siena She rapidly gained a wide reputation for her holiness and her severe asceticism. In her early twenties she experienced a “spiritual espousal” to Christ and was moved to immediately begin serving the poor and sick, gaining disciples in the process. Ministry and defense of the papacy Her ministry eventually moved beyond her local community, and Catherine began to travel and promote church reform. When the rebellious city of Florence was placed under an interdict by Pope Gregory XI (1376), Catherine determined to take public action for peace within the church and Italy and to encourage a Crusade against the Muslims. She went as an unofficial mediator to Avignon with her confessor and biographer Raymond of Capua. Her mission failed, and she was virtually ignored by the pope, but while at Avignon she promoted her plans for a Crusade. Fra Bartolommeo: God the Father with SS. Catherine of Siena and Mary MagdaleneGod the Father with SS. Catherine of Siena and Mary Magdalene, painting by Fra Bartolommeo, 1509; in the Pinacoteca Civica, Lucca, Italy.(more) It became clear to her that the return of Pope Gregory XI to Rome from Avignon—an idea that she did not initiate and had not strongly encouraged—was the only way to bring peace to Italy. Catherine left for Tuscany the day after Gregory set out for Rome (1376). At his request she went to Florence (1378) and was there during the Ciompi Revolt (an insurrection of the lower classes of Florence that briefly brought to power one of the most democratic governments in Florentine history) in June. After a short final stay in Siena, during which she completed The Dialogue (begun the previous year), she went to Rome in November, probably at the invitation of Pope Urban VI, whom she helped in reorganizing the church. From Rome she sent out letters and exhortations to gain support for Urban; as one of her last efforts, she tried to win back Queen Joan I of Naples to obedience to Urban, who had excommunicated the queen for supporting the antipope Clement VII. Writings Catherine’s writings, all of which were dictated, include about 380 letters, 26 prayers, and the 4 treatises of Il libro della divina dottrina, better known as The Dialogue (c. 1475; Eng. trans. by Suzanne Noffke, 1980). The record of her ecstatic experiences in The Dialogue illustrates her doctrine of the “inner cell” of the knowledge of God and of self into which she withdrew. A complete edition of Catherine’s works, together with her biography by Raymond, was published in Siena (1707–21). Relics Catherine was buried in Rome in a tomb at the Basilica Santa Maria sopra Minerva. However, many of her relics are held in other cities and countries. Her head and thumb are preserved in reliquaries in the Basilica of San Domenico in Siena. Other relics are held in churches in Venice and Belgium. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by René Ostberg.
