URL: https://britannica.com/topic/Roman-religion
Title: Roman religion | History, Gods, Beliefs, Practices, & Facts | Britannica
H1: Roman religion
H2: Nature and significance History Early Roman religion Deification of functions
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Roman religion
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Roman religion Table of Contents Introduction Nature and significance History Early Roman religion Deification of functions Veneration of objects Purpose of sacrifice and magic Religion in the Etruscan period Importance of ritual Influence on Roman religion Religion in the early Republic Religion in the later Republic: crises and new trends The imperial epoch: the final forms of Roman paganism The imperial cult Introduction of Christianity and Mithraism The survival of Roman religion Beliefs, practices, and institutions The earliest divinities The divinities of the later Regal period The divinities of the Republic The Sun and stars Priests Shrines and temples Sacrifice and burial rites Religious art Conclusion References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Images & Videos For Students Roman religion summary Quizzes Gods, Goddesses, and Greek Mythology Discover 7 Deadliest Weapons in History 9 American Political Scandals 9 Questions About the Vietnam War Answered Timeline of the American Civil Rights Movement Is Australia an Island? How Many Countries Are There in the World? Where Is “Old Zealand”? Contents Philosophy & Religion Ancient Religions & Mythology Temple of Diana Roman temple, known as the Temple of Diana, in Évora, Portugal. (more) Roman religion Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/topic/Roman-religion Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites World History Encyclopedia - Roman Religion PBS - The Roman Empire: in the First Century - Religion UNRV Roman History - Roman Religion The Metropolitan Museum of Art - Eastern Religions in the Roman World Internet Archive - "A History of Roman Religion Academia - Religion in the Roman Empire, ed. by Jörg Rüpke and Greg Woolf (PDF) National Geographic - The Gods and Goddesses of Ancient Rome OpenStax - Religion in the Roman Empire Fordham University - The Institutions of Roman Religion Ask the Chatbot a Question Also known as: Roman mythology Written by Michael Grant President and Vice-Chancellor, Queen's University of Belfast, Northern Ireland, 1959–66. Author of History of Rome and others; editor of Latin Literature and others. Michael Grant Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 26, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Also called: Roman mythology (Show more) Key People: Theodosius I Julius Pomponius Laetus Publius Nigidius Figulus Franz Cumont (Show more) Related Topics: Robigus Terminalia Juppiter indiges numen Feriae Conceptivae (Show more) See all related content Roman religion, beliefs and practices of the inhabitants of the Italian peninsula from ancient times until the ascendancy of Christianity in the 4th century ce, during a period known as Classical antiquity. Nature and significance The Romans, according to the orator and politician Cicero, excelled all other peoples in the unique wisdom that made them realize that everything is subordinate to the rule and direction of the gods. Yet Roman religion was based not on divine grace but instead on mutual trust (fides) between god and man. The object of Roman religion was to secure the cooperation, benevolence, and “peace” of the gods (pax deorum). The Romans believed that this divine help would make it possible for them to master the unknown forces around them that inspired awe and anxiety (religio), and thus they would be able to live successfully. Consequently, there arose a body of rules, the jus divinum (“divine law”), ordaining what had to be done or avoided. These precepts for many centuries contained scarcely any moral element; they consisted of directions for the correct performance of ritual. Roman religion laid almost exclusive emphasis on cult acts, endowing them with all the sanctity of patriotic tradition. Roman ceremonial was so obsessively meticulous and conservative that, if the various partisan accretions that grew upon it throughout the years can be eliminated, remnants of very early thought can be detected near the surface. This demonstrates one of the many differences between Roman religion and Greek religion, in which such remnants tend to be deeply concealed. The Greeks, when they first began to document themselves, had already gone quite a long way toward sophisticated, abstract, and sometimes daring conceptions of divinity and its relation to man. But the orderly, legalistic, and relatively inarticulate Romans never quite gave up their old practices. Moreover, until the vivid pictorial imagination of the Greeks began to influence them, they lacked the Greek taste for seeing their deities in personalized human form and endowing them with mythology. In a sense, there is no Roman mythology, or scarcely any. Although discoveries in the 20th century, notably in the ancient region of Etruria (between the Tiber and Arno rivers, west and south of the Apennines), confirm that Italians were not entirely unmythological, their mythology is sparse. What is found at Rome is chiefly only a pseudomythology (which, in due course, clothed their own nationalistic or family legends in mythical dress borrowed from the Greeks). Nor did Roman religion have a creed; provided that a Roman performed the right religious actions, he was free to think what he liked about the gods. And, having no creed, he usually deprecated emotion as out of place in acts of worship. In spite, however, of the antique features not far from the surface, it is difficult to reconstruct the history and evolution of Roman religion. The principal literary sources, antiquarians such as the 1st-century-bce Roman scholars Varro and Verrius Flaccus, and the poets who were their contemporaries (under the late Republic and Augustus), wrote 700 and 800 years after the beginnings of Rome. They wrote at a time when the introduction of Greek methods and myths had made erroneous (and flattering) interpretations of the distant Roman past unavoidable. In order to supplement such conjectures or facts as they may provide, scholars rely on surviving copies of the religious calendar and on other inscriptions. There is also a rich, though frequently cryptic, treasure-house of material in coins and medallions and in works of art. Britannica Quiz Gods, Goddesses, and Greek Mythology History Early Roman religion For the earliest times, there are the various finds and findings of archaeology. But they are not sufficient to enable scholars to reconstruct archaic Roman religion. They do, however, suggest that early in the 1st millennium bce, though not necessarily at the time of the traditional date for the founding of Rome (753 bce), Latin and Sabine shepherds and farmers with light plows came from the Alban Hills and the Sabine Hills, and that they proceeded to establish villages at Rome, the Latins on the Palatine Hill and the Sabines (though this is uncertain) on the Quirinal and Esquiline hills. About 620 the communities merged, and c. 575 the Forum Romanum between them became the town’s meeting place and market. Deification of functions From such evidence it appears that the early Romans, like many other Italians, sometimes saw divine force, or divinity, operating in pure function and act, such as in human activities like opening doors or giving birth to children, and in nonhuman phenomena such as the movements of the sun and seasons of the soil. They directed this feeling of veneration both toward happenings that affected human beings regularly and, sometimes, toward single, unique manifestations, such as a mysterious voice that once spoke and saved them in a crisis (Aius Locutius). They multiplied functional deities of this kind to an extraordinary degree of “religious atomism,” in which countless powers or forces were identified with one phase of life or another. Their functions were sharply defined; and in approaching them it was important to use their right names and titles. If one knew the name, one could secure a hearing. Failing that, it was often best to cover every contingency by admitting that the divinity was “unknown” or adding the precautionary phrase “or whatever name you want to be called” or “if it be a god or goddess.”
