URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Lifestyles-Social-Issues
Title: Lifestyles & Social Issues Portal | Britannica
H1: Lifestyles & Social Issues
H2: Featured content, May 02, 2025 Lifestyles & Social Issues Quizzes Lifestyles & Social Issues Videos Lifestyles & Social Issues Subcategories
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Lifestyles & Social Issues Lifestyles & Social Issues It's easy enough to agree that human beings all around the world have certain basic requirements that must be fulfilled in order to ensure their individual and collective well-being. History has shown us, however, that it's not so easy to form societies or communities that fulfill these requirements for all members. The fight for human and civil rights has persisted for hundreds of years and remains alive today, both within the borders of nations and on an international scale. It has led to large-scale social movements and reforms concerning issues such as suffrage, slavery, women's rights, racism, environmentalism, gay rights, and much more. Browse Subcategories Education Festivals & Holidays Human Rights Human Migration LGBTQ Issues Newspapers & Magazines Slavery & Human Trafficking Social Movements & Trends Sociology & Society Featured content, May 02, 2025 7 Bizarre Spa Treatments Beauty may be skin deep, but the lengths we go to to achieve it indicate otherwise. What Is Cultural Appropriation? Cultural appropriation happens when members of a majority group adopt cultural elements of a minority group in an exploitative,... What Is the “Ides” of March? And should you really beware? 7 Winter Solstice Celebrations From Around the World Make Midwinter merry by learning some new traditions. feminism Feminism, the belief in social, economic, and political equality of the sexes. Although largely originating in the West,... human rights Human rights, rights that belong to an individual or group of individuals simply for being human, or as a consequence of... urban planning Urban planning, design and regulation of the uses of space that focus on the physical form, economic functions, and social... Charles Dickens Charles Dickens was an English novelist, generally considered the greatest of the Victorian era. His many volumes include... Lifestyles & Social Issues Quizzes Human Geography Quiz People come in all shapes and sizes. This quiz will teach you about native Australians, Indian social groups and other interesting... A Study of Greek and Roman Mythology Who led the Argonauts in search of the Golden Fleece? Who is the Roman equivalent of the Greek god Ares? From fruits to winged... Women’s History: Famous Women of Paris What Parisian was the first woman to head the IMF? Who is the female protagonist of The Hunchback of Notre Dame?... Halloween Trick-or-treat! Halloween is so much more than candy. How much do you really know about this holiday? Caliphs and Caliphates What does the word caliph mean? What caliph’s murder caused a civil war? Test your knowledge of caliphs and caliphates... Economics News What is "The Great Moderation"? Which country in Europe doesn’t use the euro? Test your economics knowledge with this quiz. U.S. Navy SEAL Quiz Navy SEALs go through a grueling training period, at least twice as difficult as this quiz. Think you’ve got what it takes? Libya Quiz What is Omar al-Mukhtar famous for? When were significant oil reserves discovered in Libya? Test your knowledge with this... Yemen Quiz Which beverage takes its name from a city in Yemen? What is the capital of Yemen? Test your knowledge with this quiz. William and Catherine Their lives have made headlines all over the world. How much do you know about the prince and princess of Wales? Test your... Lifestyles & Social Issues Videos Take a quick lesson in University of Oxford history and tour its collection of colleges and schools Learn about the origin of Halloween Witness curator Helen Evans and senior designer Jeff Daley planning an exhibit at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York The significance of Bayram in Islam Know about fake news propaganda and how to sort fake news from the real What inspires Nobel Peace Prize winner Leymah Gbowee to fight injustice Hear about Voto Mobile, a survey via radio and mobile phone in Ghana to help the public communicate their views and opinions on various issues Learn about Henry Ford and the Henry Ford Museum You are what you eat? Weird food facts The difference between sex and gender explained Image Gallery Lifestyles & Social Issues View Gallery Never Miss a Day in History Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers delivered right to your inbox. Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Lifestyles & Social Issues Subcategories Education Promoting the development of the intellectual faculties in young people and teaching the values and the accumulated knowledge of a society is no easy task, and it's one that carries great responsibility. From at least the time of Plato, schools and academies have had an important role in the cultural molding of the young generations. This discipline is concerned with the methods of teaching and learning, which are an additional support to the informal means usually provided by the familial nucleus. Modern universities, colleges, and specialized academies provide an education often geared toward a specific professional field in all areas of human knowledge. Articles teaching teacher education legal education Festivals & Holidays The commemoration of many events—religious, agricultural, or sociocultural—helps to keep traditions alive, while at the same time it unifies the participants in the celebratory spirit of a holiday, feast, or anniversary. In a similar manner, local and international exhibitions, festivals, and fairs unite people with similar causes, interests, or beliefs. Articles Independence Day United States holiday Holocaust remembrance days international holidays World Heart Day Human Rights These are the rights that you’re entitled to simply for being human. The term “human rights” is relatively new, but the concept of human rights had its origins in ancient Greece and Rome. Although the principle of human rights has gained widespread acceptance over the centuries, there has been disagreement over the nature and scope of such rights and their definition. Still, the reality of popular demands for human rights in the early 21st century is undeniable, and a deepening and widening concern for the promotion and protection of human rights on all fronts is now woven into the fabric of contemporary world affairs. Articles Martin Luther King, Jr. American religious leader and civil-rights activist Human Rights Watch international organization feminism sociology Human Migration Human migration has been a part of humankind’s history for millenia. Voluntary migration has often been prompted by a search for better economic opportunities or housing. In other cases, however, large groups of people have been forced to abandon their homes as they flee war, famine, natural disasters, or political or religious persecution. Articles refugee Trail of Tears United States history Highland Clearances Scottish history LGBTQ Issues The gay rights movement originally focused on the rights of homosexual men and women, but it has since come to advocate equal rights for bisexual, transgender, and queer individuals in addition to gay men and lesbians. The movement began in the late 19th century and has continued into the 21st century. Organizations such as the Human Rights Campaign, GLAAD, and the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association, along with individual activists such as Harvey Milk, Audre Lorde, and Larry Kramer, increased the movement's visibility and contributed to its efforts to promote human rights and fight discrimination against LGBTQ persons. The issues of primary importance for the movement have included repealing antisodomy laws, combating the HIV/AIDS epidemic, securing marriage rights for gay and lesbian couples, and lobbying governments for nondiscriminatory policies in employment, housing, and other areas of life. Articles Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell United States policy Larry Kramer American writer Lawrence v. Texas law case Newspapers & Magazines The magazine as it is now known came into existence only after the invention of printing in the West. The modern magazine had its roots in the spate of pamphlets, broadsides, ballads, chapbooks, and almanacs that printing had made possible. Much of the energy that went into those texts gradually came to be channeled into publications that appeared regularly and that collected a variety of material that was designed to appeal to particular interests. The magazine thus came to occupy the large middle ground, incapable of sharp definition, between the book and the newspaper. Articles Los Angeles Times American newspaper Chicago Tribune American newspaper The North Star American newspaper Slavery & Human Trafficking property" of the slaveholder, despite the obvious and grievous violation of human rights that this practice entailed. The abolition movement in western Europe and the Americas began in the late 18th century and was chiefly responsible for creating the emotional climate necessary for ending the transatlantic slave trade. Although slavery no longer exists as a legal phenomenon recognized by a political authority or government, human trafficking—a form of modern-day slavery that involves the illegal transport of individuals by force or deception for the purpose of labor, sexual exploitation, or financial gain—is a growing international phenomenon that affects people of all ages. Articles Haitian Revolution Haitian history comfort women Asian history slavery sociology Social Movements & Trends The rules and cultural norms of an organized society may not be written in stone, but often it does take a dedicated collective effort to disrupt and revise them. Throughout history, people have come together in group campaigns to effect change in the structure or values of a society. Movements such as abolitionism, the women's rights movement, the American civil rights movement, and the gay rights movement illustrate how common citizens can influence legislative action and modify cultural norms when they unite with the shared goal of bringing about a certain social change. Societal change can also take place naturally as a result of the accumulation of many smaller changes within a society. Large-scale trends such as industrialization, modernization, and urbanization provide examples of this more passive process of change. Articles communism ideology Gloria Steinem American feminist, political activist, and editor anarchism Sociology & Society The study of human societies is an important tool for the improvement of living conditions. It analyzes the innumerable factors that are the makeup of human behavior and that can cause social injustice, stratification, and societal disorder in the form of crime, deviance, and revolution. It helps to find the best possible solutions to issues such as economic inequality, race relations, and gender discrimination. The discipline of sociology has grown by leaps and bounds in the last century with the contribution of scholars from different schools of thought. Articles interest group political science sociology kinship Home Lifestyles & Social Issues History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
