URL: https://britannica.com/list/browse
Title: Encyclopedia Britannica Lists | Britannica
H1: Lists
H2: Featured Lists Trending Lists
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Lists Entertainment & Pop CultureGeography & TravelHealth & MedicineLifestyles & Social IssuesLiteraturePhilosophy & ReligionPolitics, Law & GovernmentScienceSports & RecreationTechnologyVisual ArtsWorld History Timeline of the September 11 Attacks How the September 11, 2001, attacks unfolded hour by hour. Wee Worlds: Our 5 (Official) Dwarf Planets Learn all about Pluto and its pals. 26 Historic Buildings to Visit the Next Time You’re in Paris Know before you go. A History of U.S. Presidential Elections in Maps Every presidential election since 1789. 10 Legendary Creatures from Around the World Come encounter 10 strange and astonishing legendary creatures. 7 Canceled or Reintroduced Olympic Sports According to the Olympics, not all sports are equal. 6 Paintings to Visit at the Pinacoteca di Brera Learn before you look. 11 Architectural Wonders to Visit in Canada Know before you go. 8 of History’s Most Famous Vegetarians These historical figures were vegetarians before it was cool. 9 Modern Corporate Criminals Corporations behaving very badly. 10 Questions About Insects Answered Learn fascinating facts about bugs. Fightin’ Fauna: 6 Animals of War Some battles were won with unexpected weapons. Flags That Look Alike Figure out which flag to wave. 8 Questions About the Moon Answered Answers for the next time you’re looking at the night sky. 10 Modernist Art Movements Is this high art, or could your kid do that? 5 Significant Buildings in Delhi Know before you go. 7 Accomplished Paintings in Moscow Learn before you look. 8 Extraordinary Paintings at the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna Learn before you look. 12 Incredible Buildings in South Africa Learn Before You Look 13 Iconic Buildings to Visit in New York City Know before you go. 9 Historic Places Worth Exploring in Egypt Know before you go. 10 Famous Artworks by Leonardo da Vinci Of the few surviving works by Leonardo da Vinci, which ones are... Pablo Escobar: 8 Interesting Facts About the King of Cocaine Get to know the infamous drug kingpin. The 10 Greatest Basketball Players of All Time According to our sports editor, at least. Featured Lists World History 9 Questions About the Vietnam War Answered Important questions asked and answered, briefly. World History 9 Questions About the American Civil War Answered Important questions asked and answered, briefly. 5 Incredible Women in STEM You Need to Know 14 Tough Questions Answered 10 Questions About Insects Answered 18 Questions About Farming Answered Trending Lists The Sun Was Eaten: 6 Ways Cultures Have Explained Eclipses New Seven Wonders of the World 7 of History's Most Notorious Serial Killers All 119 References in “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained The 10 Greatest Basketball Players of All Time 12 Greek Gods and Goddesses 11 Egyptian Gods and Goddesses 12 Novels Considered the “Greatest Book Ever Written” 9 of the World’s Deadliest Snakes 10 Important Dates in Pluto History History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
