URL: https://britannica.com/topic/University-of-Oxford
Title: University of Oxford | History, Colleges, & Notable Alumni | Britannica
H1: University of Oxford
H2: News • History of Oxford University Notable alumni List of Oxford colleges
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: University of Oxford
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. University of Oxford Table of Contents Introduction History of Oxford University Notable alumni List of Oxford colleges References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Images & Videos For Students University of Oxford summary Read Next Behind the Scenes: 12 Historical Figures in Wolf Hall Discover Nostradamus and His Prophecies 5 Unbelievable Facts About Christopher Columbus 7 Deadliest Weapons in History The Death of Shakespeare Timeline of the American Civil Rights Movement All 81 References in Fall Out Boy’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained Where Is “Old Zealand”? Contents Lifestyles & Social Issues Education University of Oxford Oxford University lies along the upper course of the River Thames, known locally as the Isis, Oxfordshire, England. (more) University of Oxford university, Oxford, England, United Kingdom Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/topic/University-of-Oxford Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites British History Online - The University of Oxford, Oxford, England, United Kingdom Official Site of the University of Oxford, England, United Kingdom Ask the Chatbot a Question Also known as: Oxford University Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 26, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Quick Facts Date: c. 1101 - present (Show more) Notable Alumni: Thomas, Cardinal Wolsey Sir Michael Ernest Sadler C.S. Lewis J.R.R. Tolkien Charles Taylor (Show more) Related People: Cecil Rhodes William Laud Sir William Osler, Baronet Thomas, Cardinal Wolsey William Richard Morris, Viscount Nuffield (Show more) See all related content News • Anaemia may boost heart disease in newborns, Oxford study finds • Apr. 26, 2025, 2:27 AM ET (BBC) ...(Show more) Zimbabwe's stone carvers seek a revival as an Oxford exhibition confronts a British colonial legacy • Apr. 19, 2025, 11:14 PM ET (ABC News (U.S.)) The academics incensed by the woke overhaul of Oxford’s 800-year-old graduation ceremony • Apr. 10, 2025, 3:01 AM ET (The Telegraph) Show less Take a quick lesson in University of Oxford history and tour its collection of colleges and schoolsInside England's oldest university.(more)See all videos for this article University of Oxford, English autonomous institution of higher learning at Oxford, Oxfordshire, England, one of the world’s great universities. It lies along the upper course of the River Thames (called the Isis by Oxonians), 50 miles (80 km) north-northwest of London. History of Oxford University Sketchy evidence indicates that by the early 12th century, schools existed at Oxford. By the end of that century a university was well established, perhaps resulting from Henry II’s decision about 1167 to bar English students from attending the University of Paris. Oxford was modeled on that university, with initial faculties of theology, law, medicine, and the liberal arts. University College, University of OxfordFounded in 1249, University College is the oldest of Oxford's colleges.(more) In the 13th century the university gained added strength, particularly in theology, with the establishment of several religious orders, principally Dominicans and Franciscans, in the town of Oxford. The university had no buildings in its early years; lectures were given in hired halls or churches. The various colleges of Oxford were originally endowed boardinghouses for impoverished scholars. They were intended primarily for students pursuing a master’s or bachelor’s degree in arts who needed financial assistance to continue higher studies. The earliest of these colleges, University College, was founded in 1249. Balliol College was founded about 1263, and Merton College in 1264. English Franciscan philosopher Roger BaconEnglish Franciscan philosopher and educational reformer Roger Bacon in his observatory at the Franciscan monastery, Oxford, England, engraving c. 1867.(more) Oxford’s early reputation was based on theology and the liberal arts, but the university also gave more-serious treatment to the physical sciences than did the University of Paris. Roger Bacon, after leaving Paris, conducted his scientific experiments and lectured at Oxford from 1247 to 1257. Bacon was one of several influential Franciscans at the university during the 13th and 14th centuries. Among the others were Duns Scotus and William of Ockham. John Wycliffe (c. 1330–84) spent most of his life as a resident Oxford doctor. Pembroke College, University of OxfordPembroke College was founded in 1624, when interest in scientific studies was increasing.(more) Beginning in the 13th century the university gained charters from the crown, but the religious foundations in Oxford town were suppressed during the Protestant Reformation. In 1571 an act of Parliament led to the incorporation of the university. The university’s statutes were codified by its chancellor, Archbishop William Laud, in 1636. In the early 16th century professorships began to be endowed, and in the latter part of the 17th century, interest in scientific studies increased substantially. During the Renaissance, Desiderius Erasmus carried the new learning to Oxford, and such scholars as William Grocyn, John Colet, and Thomas More enhanced the university’s reputation. Since that time Oxford has traditionally held the highest reputation for scholarship and instruction in the classics, theology, and political science. In the 19th century the university’s enrollment and its professorial staff were greatly expanded. The first women’s college at Oxford, Lady Margaret Hall, was founded in 1878, and women were first admitted to full membership in the university in 1920. In the 20th century Oxford’s curriculum was modernized. Science came to be taken much more seriously and professionally, and many new faculties were added, including ones for modern languages and economics. Postgraduate studies also expanded greatly in the 20th century. In the 21st century Oxford was at the forefront of the global response to the COVID-19 crisis, partnering with pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca to develop a vaccine that was supplied to more than 180 countries by 2022. About 3 billion doses were delivered, largely to low- and middle-income countries. AstraZeneca has since announced the withdrawal of the vaccine, based on commercial considerations and the belief that the vaccine may have outlived its usefulness. The Radcliffe Camera, designed by James GibbsPart of the Bodleian Library, the Radcliffe Camera houses the Radcliffe Science Library.(more) Oxford houses two renowned scholarly institutions, the Bodleian Library and the Ashmolean Museum of Art and Archaeology, as well as the Museum of the History of Science (established 1924). The Oxford University Press, established in 1478, is one of the largest and most prestigious university publishers in the world. Notable alumni Merton College, University of OxfordFounded in 1264, Merton is the third-oldest of Oxford's colleges after University and Balliol.(more) Oxford has been associated with many of the greatest names in British history, including John Wesley, Cardinal Wolsey, Oscar Wilde, Richard Burton, Cecil Rhodes and Walter Raleigh. The astronomer Edmond Halley studied at Oxford, and the physicist Robert Boyle performed his most important research there. Thirty-one British prime ministers studied at Oxford, including William Pitt the Elder, George Canning, Robert Peel, William Gladstone, Lord Salisbury, H.H. Asquith, Clement Atlee, Anthony Eden, Harold Macmillan, Edward Heath, Harold Wilson, Margaret Thatcher, Tony Blair, David Cameron and, most recently, Rishi Sunak and Keir Starmer. Among the many notable writers associated with the university are Lewis Carroll, C.S. Lewis, and J.R.R. Tolkien; the latter two were members of the Inklings, an informal Oxford literary group in the mid-20th century. Other prominent poets and authors include W.H. Auden, John Betjeman, T.S. Eliot, Cecil Day-Lewis, William Golding, Graham Greene, Philip Larkin, Aldous Huxley, V.S. Naipaul, and Joseph Heller. List of Oxford colleges The colleges and collegial institutions of the University of Oxford include: All Souls (1438) Balliol (1263–68) Brasenose (1509) Christ Church (1546) Corpus Christi (1517) Exeter (1314) Green (1979) Harris Manchester (founded 1786; inc. 1996) Hertford (founded 1740; inc. 1874) Jesus (1571) Keble (founded 1868; inc. 1870) Kellogg (1990) Lady Margaret Hall (founded 1878; inc. 1926) Linacre (1962) Lincoln (1427) Magdalen (1458) Mansfield (founded 1886; inc. 1995) Merton (1264) New (1379) Nuffield (founded 1937; inc. 1958) Oriel (1326) Pembroke (1624) Queen’s (1341) St. Anne’s (founded 1879; inc. 1952) St. Antony’s (1950) St. Catherine’s (1962) St. Cross (1965) St. Edmund Hall (1278) St. Hilda’s (founded 1893; inc. 1926) St. Hugh’s (founded 1886; inc. 1926) St. John’s (1555) St. Peter’s (founded 1929; inc. 1961) Somerville (founded 1879; inc. 1926) Templeton (founded 1965; inc. 1995) Trinity (1554–55) University (1249) Wadham (1612) Wolfson (founded 1966; inc. 1981) Worcester (founded 1283; inc. 1714) Among the university’s private halls are Blackfriars (founded 1921; inc. 1994), Campion (founded 1896; inc. 1918), Regent’s Park College (founded 1810; inc. 1957), and Wycliffe (founded 1877; inc. 1996). Contemporary Oxford is committed to globalization and sustainability. Almost half of the university’s students and academic staff hail from countries other than the United Kingdom. It also has several international research collaborations and partnerships. The university’s efforts in social, economic, and environmental sustainability include expanding outreach initiatives, closing the gender pay gap, investing in energy-efficient technology, recycling waste, and increasing biodiversity. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica This article was most recently revised and updated by Gitanjali Roy.
