URL: https://britannica.com/story/where-is-old-zealand
Title: Where Is “Old Zealand”? | Britannica
H1: Where Is “Old Zealand”?
H2: 
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: In December 1642 Dutch navigator Abel Janszoon Tasman was the first European to sight New Zealand’s South Island, and Dutch cartographers named the territory after the Dutch maritime province of Zeeland.
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Discover How Many Countries Are There in the World? Inventors and Inventions of the Industrial Revolution 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms All 81 References in Fall Out Boy’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained Vietnam War Timeline 5 Unbelievable Facts About Christopher Columbus Is Australia an Island? Home Demystified Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Actions Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/story/where-is-old-zealand Where Is “Old Zealand”? Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/story/where-is-old-zealand Written by Michael Ray Michael Ray is an assistant managing editor who has worked at Britannica since 2003. In addition to leading the Geography and History team, he oversees coverage of European history and military affairs.... Michael Ray Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica (more)Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The map is littered with place names that are derived from older place names. New Brunswick. New Hampshire. New Orleans. The act of taking a location from an explorer’s country of origin, prefixing it with “New,” and assigning it to a place that scarcely resembles its namesake (”Old” Jersey is a sparsely populated Channel Island known primarily for its dairy cattle) is practically its own chapter in the how-to guide to Western colonialism. Thanks to the globe-spanning commercial reach of the Dutch East India Company, place names that have their origins in the Netherlands pop up with surprising regularity. Dutch explorers and colonial officials were responsible for New Netherland (now New York), New Amsterdam (now New York City), and New Haarlem (now just Harlem). The British would ensure that those names would be chiefly remembered in song, if at all (”Even old New York was once New Amsterdam...”), and although they replaced the Dutch-named New Holland with Australia, New Zealand retained its Dutch origins. In December 1642 Dutch navigator Abel Janszoon Tasman was the first European to sight New Zealand’s South Island, and Dutch cartographers named the territory after the Dutch maritime province of Zeeland. Located just northwest of the Belgian city of Antwerp, Zeeland is more than 11,000 miles (17,700 km) from New Zealand. To provide some perspective on that figure, the maximum distance between any two points on Earth is about 12,450 miles (20,000 km), so New Zealand is practically as far as you can be from Zeeland without leaving Earth. The Dutch East India Company certainly got around. Load More
