URL: https://britannica.com/topic/May-Day-European-seasonal-holiday
Title: May Day | Spring Festival, Maypole | Britannica
H1: May Day
H2: News •
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: May Day
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. May Day Table of Contents Introduction References & Edit History Related Topics Images Read Next The Perils of an Early Spring Happy Halloween What’s the Difference Between Great Britain and the United Kingdom? Why Is Labor Day Celebrated in September? Columbus Day Discover Inventors and Inventions of the Industrial Revolution How Many Countries Are There in the World? All 81 References in Fall Out Boy’s “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms Did Duchess Anastasia Survive Her Family’s Execution? Nostradamus and His Prophecies 9 American Political Scandals Contents Lifestyles & Social Issues Festivals & Holidays Maypole dance Traditional Maypole dance from England, with circle formation of dancers interweaving; detail from a 19th-century drawing. (more) May Day European seasonal holiday Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/topic/May-Day-European-seasonal-holiday Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Industrial Workers of the World - The Brief Origins of May Day South African History Online - The History of May Day in South Africa James Madison University - May Day Celebration National Trust - The history of May Day NPR - What is May Day? For the most part, the opposite of capitalism CNN - May Day: Its origins and its ties to labor rights Central Intelligence Agency - Spy Pilot: Francis Gary Powers, The U-2 Incident, and a Controversial Cold War Legacy (PDF) Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. May Day - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) May Day - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Ask the Chatbot a Question Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: May 1, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Related Topics: Europe holiday spring quarter days May (Show more) See all related content News • May Day demonstrations in US and around the globe protest Trump agenda • May 1, 2025, 9:41 PM ET (AP) ...(Show more) The Latest: Trump names Rubio as acting national security adviser, taps Waltz as UN ambassador • May 1, 2025, 7:59 PM ET (AP) Activists to rally worldwide on May Day, with US protests targeting Trump policies • May 1, 2025, 12:09 AM ET (AP) Show less Maypole decorated with streamers.(more) May Day, in medieval and modern Europe, holiday (May 1) for the celebration of the return of spring. The observance probably originated in ancient agricultural rituals, and the Greeks and Romans held such festivals. Although later practices varied widely, the celebrations came to include the gathering of wildflowers and green branches, the weaving of floral garlands, the crowning of a May king and queen, and the setting up of a decorated May tree, or Maypole, around which people danced. Such rites originally may have been intended to ensure fertility for crops and, by extension, for livestock and humans, but in most cases this significance was gradually lost, so that the practices survived largely as popular festivities. Among the many superstitions associated with May Day was the belief that washing the face with dew on the morning of May 1 would beautify the skin. Because the Puritans of New England considered the celebrations of May Day to be licentious and pagan, they forbade its observance, and the holiday never became an important part of American culture. In the 20th century, traditional May Day celebrations declined in many countries as May 1 became associated with the international holiday honouring workers and the labour movement (see May Day). This article was most recently revised and updated by John M. Cunningham.
