URL: https://britannica.com/topic/Celtic-religion
Title: Celtic religion | Druidism, Mythology & Rituals | Britannica
H1: Celtic religion
H2: Sources
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Celtic religion
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Celtic religion Table of Contents Introduction Sources The Celtic gods Goddesses and divine consorts Zoomorphic deities Beliefs, practices, and institutions Cosmology and eschatology Worship Festivals The impact of Christianity References & Edit History Related Topics Images For Students Celtic religion summary Discover 9 American Political Scandals The Death of Shakespeare How Many Countries Are There in the World? Timeline of the 1990s Is Australia an Island? Timeline of the American Civil Rights Movement 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms Contents Philosophy & Religion Ancient Religions & Mythology Celtic cross. (more) Celtic religion Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/topic/Celtic-religion Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites Academia - How to Identify Celtic Religion(s) in Roman Britain and Gaul English Monarchs - The Celtic religion World History Encyclopedia - Ancient Celtic Religion Ask the Chatbot a Question Written by Myles Dillon Senior Professor of Celtic Studies, Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies, 1949–72. Author of Early Irish Society. Myles Dillon, Proinsias Mac Cana Senior Professor, School of Celtic Studies, Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies. Author of Celtic Mythology and others. Proinsias Mac Cana•All Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Mar 21, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Related Topics: Druid Morrígan Branwen Sulis Creidylad (Show more) See all related content Celtic religion, religious beliefs and practices of the ancient Celts. The Celts, an ancient Indo-European people, reached the apogee of their influence and territorial expansion during the 4th century bc, extending across the length of Europe from Britain to Asia Minor. From the 3rd century bc onward their history is one of decline and disintegration, and with Julius Caesar’s conquest of Gaul (58–51 bc) Celtic independence came to an end on the European continent. In Britain and Ireland this decline moved more slowly, but traditional culture was gradually eroded through the pressures of political subjugation; today the Celtic languages are spoken only on the western periphery of Europe, in restricted areas of Ireland, Scotland, Wales, and Brittany (in this last instance largely as a result of immigration from Britain from the 4th to the 7th century ad). It is not surprising, therefore, that the unsettled and uneven history of the Celts has affected the documentation of their culture and religion. Sources Two main types of sources provide information on Celtic religion: the sculptural monuments associated with the Celts of continental Europe and of Roman Britain, and the insular Celtic literatures that have survived in writing from medieval times. Both pose problems of interpretation. Most of the monuments, and their accompanying inscriptions, belong to the Roman period and reflect a considerable degree of syncretism between Celtic and Roman gods; even where figures and motifs appear to derive from pre-Roman tradition, they are difficult to interpret in the absence of a preserved literature on mythology. Only after the lapse of many centuries—beginning in the 7th century in Ireland, even later in Wales—was the mythological tradition consigned to writing, but by then Ireland and Wales had been Christianized and the scribes and redactors were monastic scholars. The resulting literature is abundant and varied, but it is much removed in both time and location from its epigraphic and iconographic correlatives on the Continent and inevitably reflects the redactors’ selectivity and something of their Christian learning. Given these circumstances it is remarkable that there are so many points of agreement between the insular literatures and the continental evidence. This is particularly notable in the case of the Classical commentators from Poseidonius (c. 135–c. 51 bc) onward who recorded their own or others’ observations on the Celts.
