URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Bugs-Mollusks-Invertebrates
Title: Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Portal | Britannica
H1: Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates
H2: Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Encyclopedia Articles Featured Articles Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Subcategories Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Encyclopedia Articles
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Science Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Yet, in addition to being critically important—because they naturally recycle decaying matter—in maintaining balance within the food chain, bugs can also be fascinating creatures, whether in regard to the water strider's ability to run across the surface of water or the assassin bugs' varied and creative means of catching and killing their prey. Mollusks, another group of invertebrates, get less of a bad rap. Their ranks include nearly 100,000 described species of soft-bodied animals that are usually wholly or partly enclosed in a calcium carbonate shell; examples include snails, clams, oysters, squids, and octopuses. Browse Subcategories Arachnids Arthropods Aschelminthes Cnidarians Comb Jellies Crustaceans Insects Mollusks Moss Animals Spiny-skinned Invertebrates Sponges Worms & Annelids Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Encyclopedia Articles 10 -CAS CAS-DRA DRI-HAR HAR-LUN LYG-PHY PHY-SEA SEE-TUB TUM-ZOR Featured Articles nematode Nematode, any worm of the phylum Nematoda. Nematodes are among the most abundant animals on Earth. They occur as parasites in animals and plants or as free-living forms in soil, fresh water, marine environments,... giant squid Giant squid, (genus Architeuthis), any member of a genus of large, elusive cephalopods inhabiting deep regions of temperate to subtropical marine waters. Thought to be the largest or second largest living... butterfly Butterfly, (superfamily Papilionoidea), any of numerous species of insects belonging to multiple families. Butterflies, along with the moths and the skippers, make up the insect order Lepidoptera. Butterflies... leech Leech, (subclass Hirudinea), any of about 650 species of segmented worms (phylum Annelida) characterized by a small sucker, which contains the mouth, at the anterior end of the body and a large sucker... jellyfish Jellyfish, any planktonic marine member of the class Scyphozoa (phylum Cnidaria), a group of invertebrate animals composed of about 200 described species, or of the class Cubozoa (approximately 20 species).... insect Insect, (class Insecta or Hexapoda), any member of the largest class of the phylum Arthropoda, which is itself the largest of the animal phyla. Insects have segmented bodies, jointed legs, and external... fiddler crab Fiddler crab, any of the approximately 65 species of the genus Uca (order Decapoda of the subphylum Crustacea). They are named “fiddler” because the male holds one claw, always much larger than the other,... mollusk Mollusk, any soft-bodied invertebrate of the phylum Mollusca, usually wholly or partly enclosed in a calcium carbonate shell secreted by a soft mantle covering the body. Along with the insects and vertebrates,... worm Worm, any of various unrelated invertebrate animals that typically have soft, slender, elongated bodies. Worms usually lack appendages; polychaete annelids are a conspicuous exception. Worms are members... tapeworm Tapeworm, any member of the invertebrate class Cestoda (phylum Platyhelminthes), a group of parasitic flatworms containing about 5,000 species. Tapeworms, which occur worldwide and range in size from about... octopus Octopus, in general, any eight-armed cephalopod (octopod) mollusk of the order Octopoda. The true octopuses are members of the genus Octopus, a large group of widely distributed shallow-water cephalopods.... mantis Mantis, (order Mantodea), any of approximately 2,000 species of large, typically slow-moving insects that are characterized by front legs with enlarged femurs (upper portion) that have a groove lined with... bee Bee, (superfamily Apoidea), any of more than 20,000 species of insects in the suborder Apocrita (order Hymenoptera), including the familiar honeybee (Apis) and bumblebee (Bombus) as well as thousands more... coral Coral, any of a variety of invertebrate marine organisms of the class Anthozoa (phylum Cnidaria) that are characterized by skeletons—external or internal—of a stonelike, horny, or leathery consistency.... centipede Centipede, (class Chilopoda), any of various long, flattened, many-segmented predaceous arthropods. Each segment except the hindmost bears one pair of legs. Centipedes generally remain under stones, bark,... Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Subcategories Arachnids When it comes to creepy-crawlies, arachnids are some of the first critters that might come to mind. This arthropod group includes spiders, daddy longlegs, and scorpions, among other creatures that many of us would prefer to avoid. Articles brown recluse spider tarantula spider black widow spider Arthropods Arthropoda is the largest phylum in the animal kingdom; about 84 percent of all known species of animals fall into this category. Lobsters, crabs, spiders, mites, insects, centipedes, and millipedes are all arthropods. Articles centipede arthropod trilobite fossil arthropod king crab crustacean Aschelminthes Aschelminth, phylum name Aschelminthes, or Nemathelminthes, a name referring to an obsolete phylum of wormlike invertebrates, mostly of microscopic size. Previously, phylum Aschelminthes included seven diverse classes of animals: Nematoda (or Nemata), Rotifera, Acanthocephala, Gastrotricha, Kinorhyncha (or Echinodera), Nematomorpha, and Gnathostomulida. (According to some authorities, Gnathostomulida was replaced by Priapula in this list.) At present, each of these classes, including Priapula, has been reclassified as a separate phylum. Articles horsehair worm invertebrate rotifer invertebrate kinorhynch marine invertebrate Cnidarians The phylum Cnidaria is made up of more than 9,000 living species, mostly marine animals. Corals, jellyfish, sea anemones, and sea fans are all cnidarians. Articles sea whip coral organ-pipe coral coral sea pansy invertebrate Comb Jellies Comb jellies are any of the numerous marine invertebrates that constitute the phylum Ctenophora. Articles moon jelly jellyfish sea anemone invertebrate Hydra hydrozoan genus Crustaceans Crustaceans are a group of invertebrate animals consisting of some 45,000 species worldwide. Crabs, lobsters, and shrimps are all counted among the subphylum Crustacea. Crustaceans are found primarily in water, as noted by Sebastian the crab in Disney’s “The Little Mermaid” (1989). Articles brine shrimp crustacean coconut crab crustacean giant crab crustacean Insects When people talk about “insects,” they often mean pests or disease carriers such as bedbugs, houseflies, beetles, mosquitoes, fleas, and hornets. To be fair, though, many insects are beneficial to humans, albeit sometimes indirectly: they pollinate plants, produce useful substances, control pest insects, act as scavengers, and serve as food for other animals. Some insects, such as butterflies, are beautiful to behold, and insects such as ladybugs flaunt eye-catching colors and patterns. Articles walking stick insect mantis insect coleopteran insect Mollusks Mollusk, also spelled mollusc, any soft-bodied invertebrate of the phylum Mollusca, usually wholly or partly enclosed in a calcium carbonate shell secreted by a soft mantle covering the body. Along with the insects and vertebrates, it is one of the most diverse groups in the animal kingdom, with nearly 100,000 (possibly as many as 150,000) described species. Each group includes an ecologically and structurally immense variety of forms: the shell-less Caudofoveata; the narrow-footed gliders (Solenogastres); the serially valved chitons (Placophora or Polyplacophora); the cap-shaped neopilinids (Monoplacophora); the limpets, snails, and slugs (Gastropoda); the clams, mussels, scallops, oysters, shipworms, and cockles (Bivalvia); the tubiform to barrel-shaped tusk shells (Scaphopoda); and the nautiluses, cuttlefishes, squids, and octopuses (Cephalopoda). Articles clam mollusk octopus mollusk order murex mollusk family Moss Animals Moss animal, also called bryozoan, any member of the phylum Bryozoa (also called Polyzoa or Ectoprocta), in which there are about 5,000 extant species. Another 15,000 species are known only from fossils. As with brachiopods and phoronids, bryozoans possess a peculiar ring of ciliated tentacles, called a lophophore, for collecting food particles suspended in the water. The bryozoans are a widely distributed, aquatic, invertebrate group of animals whose members form colonies composed of numerous connected units called zooids (hence the term Polyzoa, which means “many animals”). Articles Cheilostomata bryozoan order stenolaemate bryozoan Trepostomata fossil bryozoan order Spiny-skinned Invertebrates Echinoderm, any of a variety of invertebrate marine animals belonging to the phylum Echinodermata, characterized by a hard, spiny covering or skin. Beginning with the dawn of the Cambrian Period (542 million to 488 million years ago), echinoderms have a rich fossil history and are well represented... Articles brittle star class of echinoderms urchin echinoderm sea cucumber echinoderm Sponges Sponge, any of the primitive multicellular aquatic animals that constitute the phylum Porifera. They number approximately 5,000 described species and inhabit all seas, where they occur attached to surfaces from the intertidal zone to depths of 8,500 metres (29,000 feet) or more. The members of one family, the Spongillidae, are found in fresh water; however, 98 percent of all sponge species are marine. Adult sponges lack a definite nervous system and musculature and do not show conspicuous movements of body parts. Articles freshwater sponge invertebrate glass sponge invertebrate siliceous sponge invertebrate Worms & Annelids Annelid, phylum name Annelida, also called segmented worm, any member of a phylum of invertebrate animals that are characterized by the possession of a body cavity (or coelom), movable bristles (or setae), and a body divided into segments by transverse rings, or annulations, from which they take their name. The coelom is reduced in leeches, and setae are lacking a few specialized forms, including leeches. Articles peanut worm marine worm sea mouse annelid palolo worm polychaete Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Encyclopedia Articles 10 -CAS CAS-DRA DRI-HAR HAR-LUN LYG-PHY PHY-SEA SEE-TUB TUM-ZOR Home Science Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
