URL: https://britannica.com/biography/Mark-Carney
Title: Mark Carney | Liberal Party, Prime Minister, Biography, & Facts | Britannica
H1: Mark Carney
H2: News • Early life and education Leading the Bank of Canada and the Bank of England Political career, leadership of the Liberal Party, and becoming prime minister
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Mark Carney History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Mark Carney Table of Contents Introduction Early life and education Leading the Bank of Canada and the Bank of England Political career, leadership of the Liberal Party, and becoming prime minister References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Images Quizzes Economics News Read Next 11 Architectural Wonders to Visit in Canada Canada: 10 Claims to Fame What’s the Difference Between a President and a Prime Minister? Discover Did Duchess Anastasia Survive Her Family’s Execution? Inventors and Inventions of the Industrial Revolution How Many Countries Are There in the World? What Comes After Terabyte? Vietnam War Timeline 7 Deadliest Weapons in History Nostradamus and His Prophecies Contents Politics, Law & Government World Leaders Prime Ministers Mark Carney In March 2025 Mark Carney was elected leader of the Liberal Party of Canada, and he became Canada's prime minister shortly thereafter. An economist by training and the former governor of the Bank of Canada (2008–13) and head of the Bank of England (2013–20), Carney became his party's leader with no previous experience in elected office. (more) Mark Carney prime minister of Canada Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print print Print Please select which sections you would like to print: Table Of Contents Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/biography/Mark-Carney Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites The Guardian - Mark Carney: Bank governor's journey from wilderness to heart of the City Blavatnik School of Government - Mark Carney BBC - Mark Carney The Canadian Enycyclopedia - Mark Carney United Nations - Mark Carney: Investing in net-zero climate solutions creates value and rewards Brookings Institution - Building a better world for all: A conversation with Mark Carney Bank of Canada - Biography of Mark Carney Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Mark Carney - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Mark Carney - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Ask the Chatbot a Question Also known as: Mark Joseph Carney Written by Peter Kellner Peter Kellner is the former president of YouGov PLC and the author of Democracy: 1,000 Years in Pursuit of British Liberty and others. Peter Kellner Fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 29, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Quick Facts In full: Mark Joseph Carney (Show more) Born: March 16, 1965, Fort Smith, Northwest Territories, Canada (age 60) (Show more) Title / Office: prime minister (2025-), Canada (Show more) Political Affiliation: Liberal Party of Canada (Show more) See all related content News • Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament, and Conservative leader loses his own seat • Apr. 29, 2025, 6:15 PM ET (AP) ...(Show more) Carney wins Canadian election, while Conservative leader loses his seat in Parliament • Apr. 29, 2025, 7:27 AM ET (AP) The Latest: Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney’s Liberals win election • Apr. 28, 2025, 11:59 PM ET (AP) It might be Carney vs. Poilievre to lead Canada, but Trump is unofficially on the ballot • Apr. 27, 2025, 7:37 AM ET (AP) Trump's tough talk might help Liberal Mark Carney win a full term as Canada's prime minister • Apr. 21, 2025, 8:02 AM ET (AP) Show less Mark Carney (born March 16, 1965, Fort Smith, Northwest Territories, Canada) is a Canadian economist who became prime minister of Canada in March 2025 after he was elected leader of the Liberal Party. He had previously served as governor of the Bank of Canada from 2008 to 2013 and as head of the Bank of England from 2013 to 2020. He is the first non-British person to have led the Bank of England since its founding in 1694. He led the Liberals to victory in the April 2025 snap election. Early life and education Carney, who grew up in Canada, earned a bachelor’s degree (1988) from Harvard University, where his interest in economics was kindled by the lectures of another Canadian-born economist, John Kenneth Galbraith. He then studied economics at the University of Oxford (M.Phil., 1993; D.Phil., 1995). Prior to and following his studies at Oxford, Carney worked for Goldman Sachs, rising to become managing director of investment banking. While at Goldman Sachs he helped postapartheid South Africa gain access to international bond markets and advised Russia as it navigated a financial crisis in 1998. Leading the Bank of Canada and the Bank of England Mark Carney as head of the Bank of CanadaMark Carney at a press conference during a G20 meeting in 2010.(more) Carney was transferred to Canada in 2000. Three years later he was appointed deputy governor of the Bank of Canada (BOC). In 2004 he was seconded to the Department of Finance, where he implemented a policy to tax income trusts at the source. He returned to the BOC in November 2007 and took over as governor in February 2008. Unlike most other central bankers, Carney took immediate action during the 2008 financial crisis, reducing interest rates (by 0.5 percentage point) months before most other countries followed suit. In April 2009 he went further and promised to hold rates down for at least 12 more months in order to support the credit markets and sustain business confidence. As a result, Canada and its banks suffered less than the other Group of 7 countries, and Canada was able to return to prerecession levels of output and employment earlier than other countries in the G7. Britannica Quiz Economics News Carney’s success, combined with his relative youth and accessibility to the media, made him something of a star in the normally staid world of central banks. He acquired international responsibilities, including the post of chairman of the Committee on the Global Financial System at the Bank for International Settlements (2010–11) and chairman of the Financial Stability Board, based in Switzerland (2011–18). U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne stunned most observers in November 2012 when he declared that Carney would succeed Mervyn King as Bank of England (BOE) governor, marking the first time that a non-Briton was appointed to the position. The announcement, however, was generally well received. Carney faced numerous challenges in the post, taking over just as the United Kingdom’s economy was showing signs of sustained recovery from the recession that had started in 2008. Carney quickly adopted the “forward guidance” strategy that he had applied in Canada—giving the markets notice of the BOE’s plans by affirming that, barring unforeseen circumstances, the BOE’s very low interest rates would be maintained until unemployment in the United Kingdom fell from about 8 percent to below 7 percent. However, when unemployment dropped below 7 percent sooner than expected, there was concern about rising interest rates, leading Carney to announce that such increases would be limited. He later had to contend with the economic turmoil that ensued following the United Kingdom’s decision in 2016 to leave the European Union (“Brexit”). Political career, leadership of the Liberal Party, and becoming prime minister Carney stepped down as governor of the BOE when his term ended in 2020. He was named special envoy on climate action and finance by UN Secretary-General António Guterres, and he also held seats on numerous corporate boards. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Carney served as an informal adviser to the Canadian government under Liberal Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. In September 2024 Carney was tapped to lead a Liberal economic task force in anticipation of the scheduled 2025 general election. In December 2024 one of Trudeau’s top lieutenants, finance minister Chrystia Freeland, abruptly stepped down just hours before she was to deliver the government’s first economic statement since Donald Trump’s U.S. presidential election victory the previous month. Trudeau’s minority government proved unable to weather the shock, and a growing chorus of Liberal voices called upon the prime minister to resign. Trudeau’s personal popularity had been declining for some time, and polls showed Pierre Poilievre’s Conservative Party on track for a crushing electoral victory. Stating that Canadians deserved a “real choice in the next election,” on January 6, 2025, Trudeau announced his resignation as Liberal leader and prime minister. Although he had no previous experience in elected office, Carney had been seen as a possible successor to Trudeau for some time, and on January 16 he announced his candidacy for leadership of the Liberal Party. The contest quickly resolved into a two-person race between Carney and Freeland. While the two offered slightly different visions for Canada’s future, there was no acrimony in the competition; Carney and Freeland were old friends, with Carney serving as godfather to Freeland’s son, Ivan. On March 9 the results of the election were announced, and Carney won in a landslide. Carney succeeded Trudeau as prime minister on March 14, and he called for a snap election to be held on April 28. Trump loomed large during the campaign; his repeated calls to make Canada a “51st state” of the United States were accompanied by threats to enact staggering tariffs on Canadian products. Carney rode a wave of Canadian nationalism into polling day, and he carried off one of the most remarkable comebacks in Canadian political history. When Trudeau resigned, a Conservative victory had been seen as all but assured. Instead, Carney led the Liberals to a fourth consecutive election win. Peter Kellner The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
