URL: https://britannica.com/Science-Tech
Title: Science & Tech | Britannica
H1: Science & Tech
H2: Popular Editor's Picks Spotlight: Mummification Quizzes Videos Galleries Featured Categories
H3: Biology Astronomy Mathematics
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Science & Tech Do Lie Detectors Actually Work? A staple of crime stories, the polygraph, or lie detector, aims to determine truth. But how effective is it? © allanswart/iStock.com © Fine Art Images—Heritage Images/age fotostock History of Artificial Intelligence It has existed for less than a century but artificial intelligence has evolved rapidly, and keeps evolving. © Fine Art Images—Heritage Images/age fotostock Popular The Difference Between a Solstice and Equinox 10 Important Dates in Pluto History Defy Gravity: 7 of the Biggest Things That Flew 6 of the World's Most Dangerous Birds Editor's Picks How Much Water Should a Person Drink in a Day? On average, women need to consume about 11 cups of water to stay hydrated each day, while men require approximately 15 cups. epistemology Epistemology, the philosophical study of the nature, origin, and limits of human knowledge. The term is derived from the Greek epist?m? (“knowledge”) and logos (“reason”), and accordingly the field is sometimes referred to as the theory of knowledge. Epistemology has a long history within Western How Fast Is the Universe Expanding? Learn why the Hubble constant doesn’t seem to be very constant. 6 Amazing Facts About Gravitational Waves and LIGO Catch a gravitational wave or two. nanotechnology Nanotechnology, the manipulation and manufacture of materials and devices on the scale of atoms or small groups of atoms. The “nanoscale” is typically measured in nanometres, or billionths of a metre (nanos, the Greek word for “dwarf,” being the source of the prefix), and materials built at this 6 Questions About DNA Answered Important questions asked and answered, briefly. deepfake Deepfake, synthetic media, including images, videos, and audio, generated by artificial intelligence (AI) technology that portray something that does not exist in reality or events that have never occurred. The term deepfake combines deep, taken from AI deep-learning technology (a type of machine What Causes the Northern and Southern Lights? What causes the auroras—that is, the northern lights and the southern lights? Spotlight: Mummification A team of scientists recently recreated the face of Peru's most famous mummy, "Juanita," or the "Ice Maiden." The girl is thought to have been sacrificed when she was between the ages of 13 and 15 some 500 years ago. Mummified by centuries of ice and snow, the body was well-preserved and is just one example of how mummification can occur naturally. Methods of Mummification 9 Noteworthy Bog Bodies (And What They Tell Us) The History of Embalming Quizzes Name That Magnified Object! Can you figure out what these common items are when they're extremely magnified? Guess the Body Part Quiz Taking this quiz requires guts. Name That Thing: Science Do you know the difference between a protractor and a compass? Guess the Animal Eyes Quiz Can you tell these creatures just by looking at their peepers? Videos Do different parts of the tongue taste different flavors? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Do different parts of the tongue taste different flavors? Why being “blind as a bat” is a myth Why is blood red? How volcanoes work, explained by a volcanologist How are plant cells different from animal cells? Galleries 7 Wonders of the Natural World Meteorites Coral Life Tornadoes The Solar System Featured Categories Biology 6 Cell Organelles A quick refresher course in biology! How Does the Human Body Maintain Its Temperature? Human body temperature is regulated by the hypothalamus in the brain. 10 Ways of Looking at Cells Learn about 10 cutting-edge microscopy tools that scientists are using to explore the internal structure of cells. 13 Questions About How the Human Body Works Answered Blood, brains, lungs, skin, and more. Astronomy 9 Ghostly Planets Were they ever out there to begin with? Why Are Planets Round? There are a lot of strange things in the universe, so why are planets round instead of every shape imaginable? How Fast Is the Universe Expanding? Learn why the Hubble constant doesn’t seem to be very constant. Telescopes: Seeing Stars For the last 400 years, telescopes have changed our view of the universe. Mathematics al-Khw?rizm? Al-Khw?rizm? was a Muslim mathematician and astronomer whose major works introduced Hindu-Arabic numerals and the concepts of algebra into European mathematics. Latinized versions of his name and of his most famous book title live on in the terms algorithm and algebra. Al-Khw?rizm? lived in Unusual Counting Systems In everyday life we use a base-10 counting system, but that is not something that has always been used in history. Euclid Euclid was the most prominent mathematician of Greco-Roman antiquity, best known for his treatise on geometry, the Elements. Of Euclid’s life nothing is known except what the Greek philosopher Proclus (c. 410–485 ce) reports in his “summary” of famous Greek mathematicians. According to him, Euclid Aryabhata Aryabhata was an astronomer and the earliest Indian mathematician whose work and history are available to modern scholars. He is also known as Aryabhata I or Aryabhata the Elder to distinguish him from a 10th-century Indian mathematician of the same name. He flourished in Kusumapura—near History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
