URL: https://britannica.com/event/Middle-Ages
Title: Middle Ages | Definition, Dates, Characteristics, & Facts | Britannica
H1: Middle Ages
H2: News •
H3: When did the Middle Ages begin? What was the role of Christendom? How long did the Migration Period last? What were the major artistic eras of the Middle Ages? What socio-economic system is perceived as characteristic of the Middle Ages?
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: Middle Ages
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Middle Ages Table of Contents Introduction & Top Questions References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Images, Videos & Interactives For Students Middle Ages summary Quizzes History Buff Quiz Ancient Civilizations Medieval History Quiz: Part Three Related Questions What was the role of Christendom? What were the major artistic eras of the Middle Ages? What socio-economic system is perceived as characteristic of the Middle Ages? Discover 5 Unbelievable Facts About Christopher Columbus How Many Countries Are There in the World? Timeline of the 1990s All 119 References in “We Didn’t Start the Fire,” Explained America’s 5 Most Notorious Cold Cases (Including One You May Have Thought Was Already Solved) The Death of Shakespeare 9 Questions About the Vietnam War Answered Contents Visual Arts Architecture calendar section of Les Très Riches Heures du duc de Berry Illustration from the calendar section of Les Très Riches Heures du duc de Berry, a “book of hours” containing prayers to be recited. It was painted by the Limbourg brothers, Barthélemy van Eyck and Jean Colombe, about 1416 and is now in the collection of the Musée Condé, Chantilly, France. (more) Middle Ages historical era Ask the Chatbot a Question More Actions Print Cite verifiedCite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/event/Middle-Ages Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites The University of Chicago Press Journals - Medieval, the Middle Age San Jose State University - Technology in the Medieval Age History Today - When Did the Medieval Period End? ABC News - What were the Middle Ages really like and are they still relevant today? Humanities LibreTexts - The Middle Ages Norman Rockwell Museum - Illustration History - The Middle Ages Smarthistory - Introduction to the Middle Ages OpenStax - World History Volume 1, to 1500 - The Post-Roman West in the Early Middle Ages Pressbooks Create - An Open Companion to Early British Literature - The Middle Ages (ca. 476-1485) Britannica Websites Articles from Britannica Encyclopedias for elementary and high school students. Middle Ages - Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11) Middle Ages - Student Encyclopedia (Ages 11 and up) Ask the Chatbot a Question Also known as: le moyen âge, media tempora, medieval period, medium aevium Written and fact-checked by The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree. They write new content and verify and edit content received from contributors. The Editors of Encyclopaedia Britannica Last Updated: Apr 5, 2025 • Article History Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask the Chatbot Quick Facts Date: 500 - 1500 (Show more) Location: Europe (Show more) Context: humanism (Show more) Major Events: Migration period (Show more) Key People: Arthur M. Sackler (Show more) See all related content Top Questions When did the Middle Ages begin? The Middle Ages was the period in European history from the collapse of Roman civilization in the 5th century CE to the period of the Renaissance (variously interpreted as beginning in the 13th, 14th, or 15th century, depending on the region of Europe and other factors). What was the role of Christendom? After the dissolution of the Roman Empire, the idea arose of Europe as one large church-state, called Christendom. Christendom consisted of two distinct groups of functionaries: the sacerdotium, or ecclesiastical hierarchy, and the imperium, or secular leaders.In theory, these two groups complemented each other, attending to people’s spiritual and temporal needs, respectively. In practice, the two institutions were constantly sparring, disagreeing, or openly warring with each other. How long did the Migration Period last? The Migration Period was a historical period sometimes called the Dark Ages, Late Antiquity, or the Early Middle Ages. The period lasted from the fall of Rome to about the year 1000, with a brief hiatus during the flowering of the Carolingian court established by Charlemagne. What were the major artistic eras of the Middle Ages? Romanesque art was the first of two great international artistic eras that flourished in Europe during the Middle Ages. Romanesque architecture emerged about 1000 and lasted until about 1150, by which time it had evolved into Gothic. Gothic art was the second of two great international eras that flourished in western and central Europe during the Middle Ages.Gothic art evolved from Romanesque art and lasted from the mid-12th century to as late as the end of the 16th century in some areas. What socio-economic system is perceived as characteristic of the Middle Ages? Feudalism designates the social, economic, and political conditions in western Europe during the early Middle Ages, the long stretch of time between the 5th and 12th centuries. Feudalism and the related term feudal system are labels invented long after the period to which they were applied. They refer to what those who invented them perceived as the most significant and distinctive characteristics of the early and central Middle Ages. News • Sotheby’s to auction earliest known kiddush cup • Apr. 4, 2025, 3:35 AM ET (Jerusalem Post) Show less Middle Ages, the period in European history from the collapse of Roman civilization in the 5th century ce to the period of the Renaissance (variously interpreted as beginning in the 13th, 14th, or 15th century, depending on the region of Europe and other factors). A brief treatment of the Middle Ages follows. For full treatment, see Europe, history of: The Middle Ages. PetrarchPetrarch, engraving.(more) The term and its conventional meaning were introduced by Italian humanists with invidious intent. The humanists were engaged in a revival of Classical learning and culture, and the notion of a thousand-year period of darkness and ignorance separating them from the ancient Greek and Roman world served to highlight the humanists’ own work and ideals. It would seem unnecessary to observe that the men and women who lived during the thousand years or so preceding the Renaissance were not conscious of living in the Middle Ages. A few—Petrarch was the most conspicuous among them—felt that their lot was cast in a dark time, which had begun with the decline of the Roman Empire. Indeed, Petrarch would provide something of a founding statement for the humanists when he wrote, “For who can doubt that Rome would rise again instantly if she began to know herself?” Britannica Quiz Medieval History Quiz: Part Three In a sense, the humanists invented the Middle Ages in order to distinguish themselves from it. They were making a gesture of their sense of freedom, and yet, at the same time, they were implicitly accepting the medieval conception of history as a series of well-defined ages within a limited framework of time. They did not speak of Augustine’s Six Ages of the World or believe in the chronology of Joachimite prophecy, but they nevertheless inherited a philosophy of history that began with the Garden of Eden and would end with the Second Coming of Christ. In such a scheme, the thousand years from the 5th to the 15th century might well be regarded as a distinct respectable period of history, which would stand out clearly in the providential pattern. Throughout European history, however, there has never been a complete breach with medieval institutions or modes of thought. The sack of Rome by Alaric the Visigoth in 410 ce had enormous impact on the political structure and social climate of the Western world, for the Roman Empire had provided the basis of social cohesion for most of Europe. Although the Germanic tribes that forcibly migrated into southern and western Europe in the 5th century were ultimately converted to Christianity, they retained many of their customs and ways of life. The changes in forms of social organization they introduced rendered centralized government and cultural unity impossible. Many of the improvements in the quality of life introduced during the Roman Empire, such as a relatively efficient agriculture, extensive road networks, water-supply systems, and shipping routes, decayed substantially, as did artistic and scholarly endeavours. This decline persisted throughout the Migration period, a historical period sometimes called the Dark Ages, Late Antiquity, or the Early Middle Ages. The Migration period lasted from the fall of Rome to about the year 1000, with a brief hiatus during the flowering of the Carolingian court established by Charlemagne. Apart from that interlude, no large political structure arose in Europe to provide stability. Two great kingdoms, Germany and Italy, began to lose their political unity almost as soon as they had acquired it; they had to wait until the 19th century before they found it again. The only force capable of providing a basis for social unity was the Roman Catholic Church. The Middle Ages therefore present the confusing and often contradictory picture of a society attempting to structure itself politically on a spiritual basis. This attempt came to a definitive end with the rise of artistic, commercial, and other activities anchored firmly in the secular world in the period just preceding the Renaissance. The origin of the expression walk to CanossaLearn about the power struggle between Pope Gregory VII and King Henry IV of Germany, including the king's walk to Canossa.(more)See all videos for this article After the dissolution of the Roman Empire, the idea arose of Europe as one large church-state, called Christendom. Christendom was thought to consist of two distinct groups of functionaries: the sacerdotium, or ecclesiastical hierarchy, and the imperium, or secular leaders. In theory, these two groups complemented each other, attending to people’s spiritual and temporal needs, respectively. Supreme authority was wielded by the pope in the first of these areas and by the emperor in the second. In practice, the two institutions were constantly sparring, disagreeing, or openly warring with each other. The emperors often tried to regulate church activities by claiming the right to appoint church officials and to intervene in doctrinal matters. The church, in turn, not only owned cities and armies but often attempted to regulate affairs of state. This tension would reach a breaking point in the late 11th and early 12th centuries during the clash between Emperor Henry IV and Pope Gregory VII over the question of lay investiture. Illustration for the month of September from Les Très Riches Heures du duc de Berry, manuscript illuminated by the Limburg brothers, c. 1416; in the Musée Condé, Chantilly, France.(more) During the 12th century a cultural and economic revival took place; many historians trace the origins of the Renaissance to this time. The balance of economic power slowly began to shift from the region of the eastern Mediterranean to western Europe. The Gothic style developed in art and architecture. Towns began to flourish, travel and communication became faster, safer, and easier, and merchant classes began to develop. Agricultural developments were one reason for these developments; during the 12th century the cultivation of beans made a balanced diet available to all social classes for the first time in history. The population therefore rapidly expanded, a factor that eventually led to the breakup of the old feudal structures. Chartres CathedralChartres Cathedral, Chartres, France, completed mid-13th century.(more) The 13th century was the apex of medieval civilization. The classic formulations of Gothic architecture and sculpture were achieved. Many different kinds of social units proliferated, including guilds, associations, civic councils, and monastic chapters, each eager to obtain some measure of autonomy. The crucial legal concept of representation developed, resulting in the political assembly whose members had plena potestas—full power—to make decisions binding upon the communities that had selected them. Intellectual life, dominated by the Roman Catholic Church, culminated in the philosophical method of Scholasticism, whose preeminent exponent, St. Thomas Aquinas, achieved in his writings on Aristotle and the Church Fathers one of the greatest syntheses in Western intellectual history. Christianity and superstition in the Middle AgesLearn about religion in the Middle Ages.(more)See all videos for this article The breakup of feudal structures, the strengthening of city-states in Italy, and the emergence of national monarchies in Spain, France, and England, as well as such cultural developments as the rise of secular education, culminated in the birth of a self-consciously new age with a new spirit, one that looked all the way back to Classical learning for its inspiration and that came to be known as the Renaissance. The Editors of Encyclopaedia BritannicaThis article was most recently revised and updated by Encyclopaedia Britannica.
