URL: https://britannica.com/browse/Health-Medicine
Title: Health & Medicine Portal | Britannica
H1: Health & Medicine
H2: Featured content, May 02, 2025 Health & Medicine Quizzes Health & Medicine Videos Health & Medicine Subcategories
H3: 
H4: 
H5: 
H6: 
Strong: History at your fingertips –
Body: Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search Login Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos On This Day One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society Lifestyles & Social Issues Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government World History Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Bugs, Mollusks & Other Invertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Companions Demystified Image Galleries Lists Podcasts Spotlight Summaries Top Questions #WTFact Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos You have reached Britannica's public website. Click here for ad-free access to your Britannica School or Library account. Home Health & Medicine Health & Medicine The study of the human mind and body, how these function, and how they interact—not only with each other but also with their environment—has been of utmost importance in ensuring human well-being. Research on potential treatments and preventive medicine has expanded greatly with the development of modern medicine, and a network of disciplines, including such fields as genetics, psychology, and nutrition, aims to facilitate the betterment of our health. Browse Subcategories Anatomy & Physiology Conditions & Diseases Genetics & Evolution Health, Nutrition & Fitness Human Development Medicine Psychology & Mental Health Featured content, May 02, 2025 7 Drugs that Changed the World Only a small number of substances can be said to have fundamentally revolutionized medicine. Can You Really Sweat Out Toxins? Maybe you should turn down the heat. 9 Fun Facts About Sleep While you sleep, your body goes to work, restoring itself and gathering energy for a new day. Water Fluoridation: Just the Facts All there is to know about one of the most effective public health programs of the last century. dengue Dengue, acute infectious mosquito-borne fever that is temporarily incapacitating but rarely fatal. Besides fever, the disease... nutritional disease Nutritional disease, any of the nutrient-related diseases and conditions that cause illness in humans. They may include deficiencies... Ebola Ebola, contagious disease caused by a virus of the family Filoviridae that is responsible for a severe and often fatal viral... human digestive system Human digestive system, system used in the human body for the process of digestion. The human digestive system consists primarily... Health & Medicine Quizzes Human Body: Fact or Fiction? How deep is your body of knowledge about the inner workings of humans? Test it with this quiz. Human Bones Quiz Without bones, the human body would have a great fall like Humpty Dumpty. Test your knowledge of the human skeleton and see... Human Organs How much of the human body’s energy does the brain use? On average, how many times does the human heart beat per minute?... The Skeletal Puzzle About how many bones do newborn humans have? What is the smallest bone in the human body? From mandibles and teeth to phalanges... The Human Body: Fact or Fiction? Can people choose to be left or right-handed? From nerves and genes to muscles and organs, see how ambidextrous you are by... Apples and Doctors: Fact or Fiction? Can diabetes be brought on by a poor diet? Can viruses live outside of a host? Perform a mental check-up by taking this human... Exploring Human Bones: Fact or Fiction? How many bones do adult humans have? What causes the bone disease rickets? Bone up on your human skeleton knowledge by taking... Human Health: Fact or Fiction? How long can a human live without water? Does vitamin C really prevent the common cold? Sort fact from fiction--and science... Human Body Fun Facts: Fact or Fiction? Are certain people more accident-prone than others? Do firstborn children have higher IQ scores than their younger siblings?... Blood: Fact or Fiction? This specialized fluid enlivens the human body, but how much do you really know about blood? From blood cells to blood types,... Health & Medicine Videos The science behind romantic love and attraction Can early exposure combat peanut allergies? Is Botox safe? How to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning Hear a discussion about the uniqueness in humans which separates them from other animals A brief guide to meditation Understand how a pinhole focuses light and why lenses are better than pinholes What is the purpose of electrolytes? What is the field of immunogenomics? Hear research on how the behavior in financial risk-taking comes from genetics Image Gallery Health & Medicine View Gallery Never Miss a Day in History Sign up for daily fun facts about this day in history, updates, and special offers delivered right to your inbox. Email address By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Health & Medicine Subcategories Anatomy & Physiology Human beings have long been curious about the way that things work, and that curiosity includes wondering about how we ourselves work. The fields of anatomy and physiology involve studying the structures of bodies and the way that those structures and bodies function. Articles meiosis cytology blood biochemistry anatomy biology Conditions & Diseases Whether we like it or not, living things are susceptible to any number of illnesses and conditions that can threaten or harm the health of those afflicted. Bacteria, viruses, and other microbiological agents are obvious challenges to health. Human disease may be acute, chronic, malignant, or benign, and it is usually indicated by signs and symptoms such as fever or vomiting. Additionally, diseases may be communicable (contagious) or noncommunicable; of the latter, the four major types identified by the World Health Organization are cancer, cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease, and diabetes mellitus. Articles Alzheimer disease pathology eating disorders pathology mental disorder Genetics & Evolution The plants and animals that are so familiar to us today may have been harder to spot millions of years ago. The theory of evolution, one of the keystones of modern biological theory, is based on the idea that living things on Earth can be traced back to other preexisting types and that the differences are due to modifications that occurred over successive generations. Genetics, an essential part of the study of evolution, looks at the inheritance of characteristics by children from their parents. It can help explain how you got your mom's green eyes or why your hair is red even though your parents are brunettes. Articles missing link evolutionary theory speciation biology human evolution Health, Nutrition & Fitness Health isn't just about being able to impress people at the gym with your weight-lifting prowess. Physical fitness, the body's ability to function properly, and the absence of disease are important factors in determining health, as is one's emotional, mental, and social state. In addition, nutrition provides the energy that fuels all physical and mental activities, including the aforementioned displays of weight-lifting mastery. Articles public health vitamin chemical compound carbohydrate biochemistry Human Development Even if you feel like a kid at heart, you probably still went through (or are currently undergoing) the typical process of change and growth that takes place between human infancy and maturity. After birth, human beings undergo infant and toddler development, moving on to child development before progressing to puberty and adolescence on the way to adulthood. Human growth involves not only biological development—the progressive changes in size, shape, and function during the life of an organism—but also emotional and psychological development. Articles psychological development infancy emotional development Medicine Humans have long sought to find cures for the ailments and injuries that befall them. This has led to a long history of diverse attempted treatments, including herbal remedies, leeching, hydrotherapy, acupuncture, homeopathy, and more, all the way up to the most recent science-based treatments that have come into use during the development of today's modern medicine. Medical research and the study of the causes of disease have led to rapid and significant advances in medicine, improving both the efficacy of treatments and our understanding of illnesses and how they operate. The importance of preventive medicine has grown, and the field of medicine has become increasingly specialized as medical disciplines and branches such as endocrinology, immunology, psychiatry, radiology, epidemiology, and nanomedicine have emerged. Articles pediatrics medicine history of medicine intensive care unit medicine Psychology & Mental Health Although Sigmund Freud was once one of the most recognizable faces of psychology, this scientific discipline has developed significantly since the time of his predominance. Psychology has become an increasingly integrative science at the hub of diverse other disciplines, from biology and neurology to sociology, anthropology, and economics. At the same time, old sub-disciplinary boundaries within pyschology itself are now crossed more freely; interdisciplinary teams may work on a common problem using methods that draw on multiple levels of analysis, whether social, cognitive, or biological. Articles Sigmund Freud Austrian psychoanalyst Daniel Kahneman Israeli-born psychologist Carl Jung Swiss psychologist Home Health & Medicine History at your fingertips – Sign up here to see what happened On This Day, every day in your inbox! Enter your email Subscribe By signing up for this email, you are agreeing to news, offers, and information from Encyclopaedia Britannica. Click here to view our Privacy Notice. Easy unsubscribe links are provided in every email. Thank you for subscribing! Be on the lookout for your Britannica newsletter to get trusted stories delivered right to your inbox. Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity ©2025 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
